An Empirical Study on Software Bill of Materials:
Where We Stand and the Road Ahead
Boming Xia∗† , Tingting Bi∗‡ , Zhenchang Xing∗§ , Qinghua Lu∗† , Liming Zhu∗†
∗CSIRO’s Data61, Sydney, Australia
†University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia
‡Monash University, Melbourne, Australia
§Australian National University, Canberra, Australia
Abstract—The rapid growth of software supply chain attacks
has attracted considerable attention to software bill of materials
(SBOM). SBOMs are a crucial building block to ensure the trans-
parency of software supply chains that helps improve software
supply chain security. Although there are significant efforts from
academia and industry to facilitate SBOM development, it is
still unclear how practitioners perceive SBOMs and what are the
challenges of adopting SBOMs in practice. Furthermore, existing
SBOM-related studies tend to be ad-hoc and lack software
engineering focuses. To bridge this gap, we conducted the first
empirical study to interview and survey SBOM practitioners. We
applied a mixed qualitative and quantitative method for gathering
data from 17 interviewees and 65 survey respondents from 15
countries across five continents to understand how practitioners
perceive the SBOM field. We summarized 26 statements and
grouped them into three topics on SBOM’s states of practice.
Based on the study results, we derived a goal model and
highlighted future directions where practitioners can put in their
effort.
Index Terms—software bill of materials, SBOM, bill of mate-
rials, responsible AI, empirical study
I. I NTRODUCTION
Modern software products are assembled through intricate
and dynamic supply chains [1], while recent attacks against
software supply chains (SSC) have increased significantly
(e.g., SolarWinds attack [2]). According to Sonatype’s report
[3], there was a 650% year-over-year increase in SSC attacks
in 2021, and the number was 430% in 2020. SSC attacks
mainly aim at the upstream open source software/components
(OSS) [4], yet OSS is heavily relied upon in software de-
velopment [5]. The reliance on OSS leads to additional risks,
such as the lack of reliable maintenance and support compared
to proprietary software/components [6]. The security risks of
software and its supply chain call for improved visibility into
the SSC, with which timely and accurate identification of the
impacted software/components could be carried out in case of
a vulnerability or an SSC attack.
A software bill of materials (SBOM) is a formal machine-
readable inventory of the components (and their dependency
relationships) used for producing a software product [7].
SBOMs enhance the security of both the proprietary and
open source components in SSCs [8] through improved trans-
parency. According to Linux Foundation’s SBOM and Cyber-
security Readiness report (SBOM readiness report for short)
[5], SBOMs are critical for enhancing SSC security. 90%
of the surveyed organizations have started or are planning
their SBOM journey, with 54% already addressing SBOMs.
The report also estimated 66% and 13% growth in SBOM
production or consumption in 2022 and 2023, respectively.
Nonetheless, some organizations are still concerned about how
SBOM adoption and application will evolve (e.g., 40% are
uncertain about industrial SBOM commitment and 39% seek
consensus on SBOM data fields).
Despite SBOMs’ essentiality for software and SSC security,
there remain questions to answer and problems to solve.
Motivated by the value of SBOMs and the existing gaps, with
the overarching goal of investigating the SBOM status quo
from practitioners’ perspectives, this paper aims to answer the
following research questions (RQs).
RQ1: What is the current state of SBOM practice?
Despite the benefits of SBOMs and the SBOM readiness
report showing an overall 90% of SBOM readiness, how
practitioners perceive SBOMs and how SBOMs are being
addressed in practice needs further investigation. To answer
this question, we analyzed the SBOM practice status from
SBOM generation, distribution and sharing, validation and
verification, and vulnerability and exploitability management.
We summarized the current SBOM practices and what practi-
tioners expect.
RQ2: What is the current state of SBOM tooling
support?
Despite the proliferation of the SBOM tooling market, this
RQ focuses on the SBOM tooling status from the practition-
ers’ perspective. We investigated the practitioners’ attitudes
towards existing tools from the following aspects: the ne-
cessity/availability/usability/integrity of SBOM tools. While
exploring the current SBOM tooling state, we also looked into
practitioners’ expectations of SBOM tools.
RQ3: What are the main concerns for SBOM?
This RQ investigates the most outstanding concerns SBOM
practitioners have. Although the prospect of SBOMs is promis-
ing, there are still challenges to resolve. With this RQ, we aim
to provide a reference for the most imminent issues for future
research and development on SBOMs.
Our research aims to unveil the state of the SBOM field,
investigating what practitioners have and how they are ad-
dressing SBOMs, versus what they expect. Our work on
2630
2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE)
1558-1225/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICSE48619.2023.00219
2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE) | 978-1-6654-5701-9/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICSE48619.2023.00219
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
SBOMs has four main distinctions and contributions compared
to existing work represented by the SBOM readiness report:
1) Timeliness: The SBOM readiness report was published
in January 2022, with the survey launched in June 2021.
Google Trends shows a significant increase in SBOM
interest since July 2021. This study provides a more
updated view of SBOMs.
2) Software engineering (SE) angles: The SBOM readi-
ness report is industry-oriented and security-focused,
whereas this research broadens and deepens the report
and supplements SE angles, evidenced by considerations
such as SBOM generation/update throughout software
development lifecycle (Finding 5) and AIBOM (Section
IV-A8). The detailed comparison between this research
and the SBOM readiness report is presented in Table IV.
3) Different objectives: The SBOM readiness report aims
to investigate whether and to what extent organizations
are prepared for SBOM production and consumption
(i.e., readiness). In contrast, this study focuses on current
SBOM practices and expectations from practitioners’
perspectives. We provide a set of implications, including
a goal model, for future endeavors towards further
operationalizing SBOMs.
4) Systematic methodology: We conducted the first em-
pirical study on the SBOM status from practitioners’
perspectives, using a mixed methodology. Instead of
using predefined questions as in SBOM readiness re-
port, we qualitatively and quantitatively coded in-depth
opinions from 17 interviewees into 26 representative
statements, which were validated in a survey with 65
valid respondents from 15 countries.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II describes the context of the SBOM field. Section III presents
the methodology of our study. In section IV we present the
study results. Section V discusses the implications of this
study. Section VI discusses related work, and section VII
draws conclusions and outlines avenues for future work.
II. B ACKGROUND : W HAT IS SBOM?
A bill of materials (BOM) was initially used in the manu-
facturing industry as an inventory list of all the sub-assemblies
and components in a parent assembly [9]. Sharing the same
origin, an SBOM as the building block to enhanced software
supply chain security is a software “BOM” (see Fig. 1).
There are three main SBOM standard formats: a) Software
Package Data eXchange (SPDX), b) CycloneDX, and c)
Software Identification (SWID) Tagging, while the first two
are most adopted [11]. SPDX is an open-source international
standard hosted by the Linux Foundation, emphasizing licence
compliance. CycloneDX was designed by OWASP in 2017
whose primary focus is security. SWID Tagging is also an in-
ternational standard maintained by the US National Institute of
Standards and Technology, focusing on providing a transparent
software/components identification mechanism.
The above three formats all have the corresponding tooling
to help operationalize the formats into practice that are listed
Fig. 1. (AI) Software supply chain and SBOM [10].
on their respective websites. It is worth mentioning that the
SBOM formats and tooling working group under the US
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
(NTIA) had an effort to summarize all tools supporting dif-
ferent standards (i.e., SPDX list, CycloneDX list, SWID list).
In terms of government-side SBOM efforts, with incidents
such as the SolarWinds attack ringing the alarm of SSC
security, the US government issued an executive order on en-
hancing cybersecurity [12] in May 2021, explicitly mandating
all companies trading with the US government to provide
SBOMs. NTIA has published a series of documents and
guidelines (e.g., SBOM minimum elements [7]) to facilitate
SBOM development. The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency (CISA) is also actively working on SBOM
facilitation by regularly hosting listening sessions with the
SBOM industrial community.
Notably, the Linux Foundation published the SBOM readi-
ness report [5] in January 2022, which surveyed 412 organi-
zations across the globe. According to the report, 98% of the
surveyed organizations are concerned about software security,
over 80% are aware of the US executive order, and 90%
have started their SBOM journey. Although the evolvement of
SBOM adoption and application remains a concern, the report
predicts that the SBOM tool market is expected to explode
in 2022 and 2023. As of January 2022, there were about
20 SBOM tool vendors in the market, and some were from
adjacent markets like Software Composition Analysis (SCA)
which dates back to 2002 [13]. Meanwhile, various open
source tools are available with a focus on SBOM generation.
However, while the SBOM readiness report comprehen-
sively covers a broad category, their reports were based on
multi-choice questions with limited choices, which constrained
the possible answers. The guidelines and documents published
by NTIA provide a reference for understanding SBOM and
SBOM practice but lack the actual perception from the SBOM
practitioners. To fill the gaps, we interviewed 17 SBOM
practitioners (see Table I) with open-ended questions on how
they perceive current SBOM practice and SBOM tooling.
We then organized an online survey containing statements
from the interviews, allowing more practitioners to validate
the statements. Compared with the SBOM readiness report
2631
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
and NTIA’s documents, we focus on how actual SBOM
practitioners think about SBOMs and how they are addressing
SBOMs in production without limiting the possible answers.
III. R ESEARCH M ETHODOLOGY
This study presents an exploratory empirical study on
SBOM status in practice. Fig. 2 shows the overall methodology
adopted in this paper that consists of three stages, following a
mixed qualitative and quantitative approach [14]. We described
the planning and preparation stage in Section III-A; the data
collection and analysis processes of the interviews and the
online survey are presented in Sections III-B and III-C.
Fig. 2. Overall research methodology.
A. Stage Zero: Planning and Preparation
At the planning stage, we prepared a research protocol1 and
drafted two types of interview questions: demographics and
open-ended. For demographics, we ask about the participants’
background information, such as job roles and experiences.
For the open-ended questions, we asked how the participants
perceive SBOMs. We obtained ethics approvals for this study.
B. Stage One: Interview
Pilot interview and protocol refinement. Before the formal
interviews, we conducted a small-scale pilot interview with 3
participants from our connections. Based on their feedback
and suggestions, we adjusted some interview questions.
Participant recruitment. We recruited 17 SBOM prac-
titioners from 13 organizations (e.g., CISA, Oracle) across
7 countries (see Table I). Interviewees were recruited by:
a) emailing our contacts who helped further disseminate the
invitation emails to their colleagues; b) emailing developers
on GitHub working on SBOM-related projects whose email
addresses are public; c) advertising on Twitter and LinkedIn
and interested people can contact the first author. The 17
interviewees have worked in software-related fields for around
14 years on average (min 4 years and max 30 years), while
they have been working actively in SBOM-related fields for
around 1.4 years on average (min 2 months and max 5 years).
We will refer to the 17 interviewees as I1 to I17.
1 https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1gylBoeF09sJRg2xEpJh2tWnjp0cC
MhxM?usp=sharing
TABLE I
I NTERVIEWEE D EMOGRAPHICS *
ID Field of work Country Work exp. SBOM exp.
I1 Dev. China 10 0.5
I2 Dev. China 10 0.2
I3 Dev. China 10 0.2
I4 Dev. & Sec. Australia 20 3.0
I5 Dev. US 18 0.5
I6 Dev. US 20 0.5
I7 Sec. Brazil 4 0.5
I8 Dev. & Cnslt. Ireland 15 1.5
I9 Sec. India 5.5 1.0
I10 Cnslt. & Adv. US 20 3.0
I11 Dev. & Sec. (SBOM tool) Israel 12 1.5
I12 Cnslt. & Adv. Israel 15 0.3
I13 Dev.&Sec.&Res. Australia 30 2.0
I14 Dev. & Sec. & Res. US 10 3.0
I15 Dev. India 8 1.5
I16 Dev. (SBOM tool) US 20 1.0
I17 Cnslt. & Adv. US 15 5.0
*Dev./Sec.: Software Development/Security; Cnslt.: Consultant; Adv.:
Advisor; Res.: Researcher. Experiences are listed in years, as of July 2022
Transcribing and coding. 1) Transcribing. The interviews
were audio-recorded. The first author transcribed the audio
recordings, and the second author double-checked the tran-
scripts. 2) Pilot coding. The first two authors (i.e., coders)
conducted a pilot coding of the 3 pilot interview transcripts.
They discussed the initial coding results and reached a certain
level of preliminary agreement on the granularity of thematic
coding. 3) Code generation. The coders then performed the-
matic coding to qualitatively analyze the interview transcripts
[15], [16] of 17 interviewees using MAXQDA2022 tool. The
first coder generated 574 codes under 86 cards (i.e., repetitive
and similar codes classified into the same category). The
second coder generated 364 codes under 41 cards. After
discussing the coding results with a third author, the coders
further cleared the coding granularity, combined similar cards,
and disposed of cards with limited value. Finally, a total of 54
unique cards were generated.
Data analysis and open card sorting. The coders sep-
arately sorted the 54 generated cards into potential themes
(not predefined) given thematic similarity. After the sorting
process, the coders calculated Cohen’s Kappa value [17] to
assess their agreement level. The overall value was 0.77,
indicating substantial agreement. The coders discussed their
disagreements to reach a common ground. he coders reviewed
and agreed on the final themes to reduce card sorting bias.
Eventually, we derived 26 statements (see Table III) under
3 themes: State of SBOMs Practice (T1), SBOM Tooling
Support (T2), and SBOM Issues and Concerns (T3). All the
authors have double-checked our coding results to ensure the
reported results are accurate and consistent.
C. Stage Two: Online Survey
We conducted an online survey to confirm or refute the ex-
tracted statements. We designed the survey following Kitchen-
ham and Pfleeger’s guideline [18]. The survey was anonymous,
and all information collected was non-identifiable.
2632
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
TABLE II
S URVEY RESPONDENTS DEMOGRAPHICS *
Field of work Project team Work exp. SBOM exp.
Dev. (38.6%) <10 ppl. (16) <1 year (1) <6 months (17)
Sec. (30.1%) 10-20 ppl. (20) 1-3 years (11) 0.5-1 year (17)
Cnslt./Adv. (10.8%) 20-50 ppl. (15) 3-5 years (13) 1-2 years (13)
Mgmt (9.7%) >50 ppl. (15) 5-10 years (9) >2 years (19)
Res. (9.7%) - >10 years (32) -
Other (1.1%) - - -
*Mgmt.: Management; ppl.: people. Since multiple answers are supported
for respondents’ work, field of work is listed in percentages while the
others are listed with response numbers.
Survey design and pilot study. The survey was published
via Qualtrics. Different types of questions were included in the
survey (e.g., multiple choice and free text). The statements are
scored on a 5-point Likert scale (Strongly disagree, Disagree,
Neutral, Agree, Strongly agree), with an additional “Not sure”.
We piloted the survey with six participants from Australia
and Singapore and then refined the survey. The pilot study
results were excluded from the final results. The formal
survey consists of 7 sections: demographics, SBOM status quo,
generation, distribution, tooling, benefits, and concerns.
Participants recruitment. To increase the number of par-
ticipants, we adopted the following strategy for recruitment:
● We contacted industrial practitioners from several compa-
nies worldwide and asked for their help in disseminating
the survey invitation emails.
● We sent invitation emails to over 2000 developers from
GitHub whose email addresses are publicly available.
● We posted the recruitment advertisement on social media
platforms (i.e., Twitter and LinkedIn).
We received a total of 129 responses, including 27 with
respondents selecting “(Very) unfamiliar with SBOM”. Note
that there could be more people unfamiliar with SBOM who
did not respond to our survey. After removing them and
the incomplete responses and responses completed within 2
minutes, we had 65 valid responses. We acknowledge that the
number of responses is not as ideal as similar empirical studies
(e.g., [16], [19]). However, we believe this is consistent with
our findings on the lack of SBOM adoption and education
(i.e., Findings 1 and 10). The 65 participants come from
15 countries across 5 continents. The top 3 countries where
the participants reside are Australia, China, and the US. An
overview of the survey respondents’ demographics is presented
in Table II. It is worth noting that although nearly half (47.7%)
of the respondents have worked in the software field for over
10 years, only one quarter (27.7%) have worked on SBOMs
for over 2 years, indicating that SBOM is still a relatively
fresh concept to software practitioners.
Data analysis. Apart from the demographics, SBOM fa-
miliarity questions, and a final optional free-text question, all
statements are presented as Likert-scale questions (see the bar
charts in Table III) for the evaluation of the agreement degree.
IV. S TUDY RESULTS
This section reports the study results. In Table III, we drew
the Linkert distribution graphs for 26 statements that were re-
organized into four topics and calculated the overall scores
based on: Strongly Disagree (1), Disagree (2), Neutral (3),
Agree (4), Strongly Agree (5), and Not Sure (0). We calculated
the percentages of “agrees” (strongly agree and agree) and
“disagrees” (strongly disagree and disagree) of each statement.
Following the SBOM background in Section II, this section
starts by introducing the current SBOM practices (Section
IV-A). Then Section IV-B investigates the current tooling
status of SBOMs. Finally, Section IV-C presents practitioners’
primary concerns for SBOMs.
A. RQ1: What is the current state of SBOM practice?
To answer RQ1, we discussed 16 statements in this section
based on T1 (see Table III). Our results suggest that SBOMs
are not widely adopted. SBOM generation and distribution re-
quire further standardization and maturer mechanisms. SBOM
data validation is generally neglected. For the typical SBOM
use case of vulnerability management, the exploitability status
classification should be more than binary.
1) SBOM benefits: We summarized 3 statements (i.e., S1-
S3) on SBOM benefits based on the interviews.
15 of 17 interviewees mentioned that the enhanced trans-
parency of the software supply chain is one of the exceptional
advantages of SBOMs [S1, 90.8% agree, 1.5% disagree].
Transparency brings a lot of favorable consequences, such
as end-of-life software management, vulnerability tracking,
and license compliance checking [5]. “The biggest benefit is
knowing exactly what is being bundled in your software, right?
So it is to assure our customers that, if there’s a vulnerability
reported, you immediately know [whether] you are impacted
or not, if the SBOM is accurate.” (I13-Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
Another benefit originates from the SBOM data. The uni-
fication of software composition details provided by SBOMs
is beneficial as the standardized SBOM data has the potential
to be further built upon. “The SBOM itself isn’t the valuable
part. The valuable part is, how do we turn that data into
intelligence, into action.” (I17-Cnslt.&Adv.) Based on the
SBOM data, it is promising that there will be SBOM-centric
ecosystems emerging [S2, 86.2% agree, 1.5% disagree]. How-
ever, due to the lack of SBOM adoption (see Section IV-A2),
such ecosystems are long-term goals not to be achieved soon.
Thirdly, although adopting SBOMs requires extra efforts
(e.g., additional tools and processes, education to related
personnel), the benefits of SBOMs outweigh the costs [S3,
86.2% agree, 7.7% disagree].  Although some organizations
are “worried whether SBOMs would increase the cost of a
software product” (I1-Dev.),  the majority favor the benefits
brought by SBOMs as the potential loss without SBOMs can
be devastating. “What I think about is, what is the cost when
a vulnerability is exploited? [...] if you look at SolarWinds
event, that cost was $800 million.” (I6-Dev.)
2633
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
TABLE III
INTERVIEW AND SURVEY RESULTS ON SBOM STATEMENTS
Likert distribution
Statement Graph Score
T1. State of SBOM practice
S1. Improving transparency and visibility into the software products is the biggest benefit of SBOMs. 4.42
S2. SBOM data form the foundation of a potential SBOM-centric ecosystem. 4.05
S3. The benefits brought by SBOMs outweigh the costs of SBOMs (e.g., extra learning and management of SBOMs & tools).
Section IV-A1
SBOM benefits 4.34
S4. Currently third-party (open source or proprietary) components are not equipped with SBOMs. 4.11
S5. SBOMs are not generated for all software products (produced/used) within an organization.
Section IV-A2
SBOM adoption 4.25
S6. SBOMs can be generated at different stages of the software development lifecycle. 4.14
S7. Currently, a new SBOM is not always re-generated when there’s any change to software artifacts.
Section IV-A3
SBOM generation points 3.31
S8. SBOMs are currently generated in a non-standardized format (e.g., not SPDX nor CycloneDX nor SWID). 2.86
S9. Despite the 7 minimum data fields recommended by NTIA, the minimum fields are not necessarily all included in SBOMs. 3.57
S10. In practice, SBOMs are extended with more useful data fields (other than the 7 minimum data fields) whenever possible.
Section IV-A4
SBOM data fields and
standarization 4.34
S11. SBOMs are currently only generated for internal consumption. 2.97
S12. Access control should be required for the distribution of SBOMs for proprietary software/components. 4.14
S13. Content tailoring (sharing partial SBOMs) should be required for SBOM distribution of proprietary software/components.
Section IV-A5
SBOM distribution 3.57
S14. SBOM producer’s (i.e., software vendor) reputation is important for assessing SBOM integrity (e.g., completeness). 3.4
S15. Currently there are no validation mechanisms to ensure SBOM integrity (accuracy, completeness etc).
Section IV-A6
SBOM validation 3.28
S16. Current vulnerability management with SBOMs doesn’t focus on the actual exploitability of the vulnerability. Section IV-A7
Vul. & exploitability 3.72
S17. SBOMs for AI software are different from SBOMs for traditional software. Section IV-A8
AIBOM 3.26
T2. State of SBOM tooling support
S18. Although existing sources (e.g., package manager, POM.xml) are already there, it is still necessary to parse and feed
metadata from these sources into a standard format via SBOM tools.
Section IV-B1
Necessity of SBOM tools 4.08
S19. There are significantly limited tools for SBOM consumption. 4
S20. SBOM consumption should be integrated with existing tools (e.g., vulnerability/configuration management tools).
Section IV-B2
Availability of SBOM tools 4.03
S21. Existing SBOM tools can be hard to use (e.g., lack of usability, complexity). 3.57
S22. SBOM tools lack of interoperability and standardization (e.g., the hash of one component generated by different tools
can be different).
Section IV-B3
Usability of SBOM tools 3.92
S23. End users can’t validate the integrity (e.g., accuracy and completeness) of the generated SBOMs by existing tools. Section IV-B4
Validation of SBOM tools 3.69
T3. SBOM issues & concerns
S24. Existing SBOM standards don’t meet current market demands (e.g., the standards support only limited fields). 2.85
S25. Attackers can take advantage of the information contained in SBOMs. 3.63
S26. There is hesitation in adopting SBOMs due to various concerns (e.g., lack of basic IT asset management).
Section IV-C
SBOM concerns 3.98
Finding 1: The transparency brought by SBOMs can
enable accountability, traceability and security, but
there is a lack of systematic consumption-scenario-
driven design of SBOM features.
2) SBOM adoption: We summarized 2 statements (i.e., S4-
S5) on SBOM adoption status (see Table III).
Despite the benefits of SBOMs and the SBOM readiness
report’s [5] optimistic results that 90% of the 412 sampled
organizations have started or are planning their SBOM journey,
the adoption of SBOM is not as optimistic according to our
interviews and survey. For example, most existing third-party
software or components, either open source or proprietary, are
not equipped with SBOMs [S4, 83.1% agree, 13.8% disagree].
As I2 stated, “when introducing third-party components to
our organization, we need to try to generate SBOMs for
them because not all of them have SBOMs.” (I2-Dev.) How-
ever, considering the prevalence of OSS, the unavailability
of SBOMs for (open-source) software/components also holds
software vendors back from SBOM adoption as they may
wonder whether SBOM adoption is an industrial consensus.
In addition, SBOMs are not generated for all software
even inside a software vendor organization [S5, 87.7% agree,
7.7% disagree]. As stated by I10, “software vendors may be
producing SBOMs for some customer products. But I bet most
of them don’t generate SBOMs for the financial software they
are using.” (I10-Cnslt.& Adv.)
Finding 2: A large portion of widely used software,
especially OSS, does not have SBOMs. The incentives
for generating SBOMs for OSS and proprietary
software need to be propagated.
3) SBOM generation point: We summarized 2 statements
(i.e., S6-S7 in Table III) on SBOM (re-)generation.
SBOMs can be generated at a set of different stages in the
software development life cycle (e.g., build time, run time,
before delivery, after third-party components introduction, etc.)
[S6, 84.6% agree, 12.3% disagree], which differs from case to
case as “the challenge here sort of builds on the sheer diversity
of software” (I17-Cnslt.&Adv.) (e.g., modern/legacy software,
container images, cloud-based software). For example, “for
legacy software that’s already out there in the wild, maybe
you don’t have reproducible builds. You only have that built
artifacts [...] it’s like you can’t do it (generate SBOMs) at
2634
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
build time anymore [...] it’s just too difficult [...] But you could
probably do a run time [SBOM] generator.” (I8-Dev.&Cnslt)
As stated by I8, “I don’t really think there is a perfect
time [for SBOM generation]”. (I8-Dev.&Cnslt) Since software
development goes through a life cycle, ideally an SBOM
should be generated at the early stages and then gradually
enriched with more information from the latter stages,
which was supported by I12 and I14. “I think the way to
actually include the most full SBOM is to have visibility
towards the whole cycles, from the report to the build to the
factory.” (I12-Cnslt.&Adv.) “I do not think we should produce
an SBOM as a one-shot process, but rather we should be
carrying evidence and partial SBOMs and enriching them in
every single operation.” (I14-Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
As for SBOM re-generation, it is evident that whenever any
change happens to any software artifact, the corresponding
SBOMs should be timely re-generated to reflect this change,
which is hardly the current practice followed by every SBOM
producer [S7, 53.8% agree, 35.4% disagree]. As stated by I10,
“that is more of an aspirational goal - it’s not something that
will be realized right away. Because right now it would be just
great if they put out a new SBOM whenever they did a new ma-
jor version, and that is better than nothing.”(I10-Cnslt.&Adv.)
However, since some organizations are re-generating SBOMs
upon each change, and if SBOM re-generation is to be a
standard practice, solutions like SBOM version control are
needed for managing the SBOMs. As stated by I8, with
different versions of SBOMs, “you need to version control
your SBOMs, and figure out how to distribute that information
to your customers.” (I8-Dev.&Cnslt)
Finding 3: SBOM generation is belated and not dy-
namic, while ideally SBOMs are expected to be gener-
ated during early software development stages and
continuously enriched/updated.
4) SBOM data fields standardization: In this subsection, we
investigated what data fields generated SBOMs contain, based
on S8-S10 in Table III, since not knowing what to include in
an SBOM is the second biggest concern for producing SBOMs
according to the SBOM readiness report [5].
First, despite the existence and relative prevalence of two
major SBOM standards (i.e., SPDX and CycloneDX), some
organizations generate SBOMs based on their customized non-
standard formats [S8, 27.7% agree, 32.3% disagree]. Based
on the survey results, although more respondents agree with
standardized SBOM formats, over one quarter agree with
customized SBOM generation. As I4 stated, “the people I
spoke to [in some organizations] might have been doing this
[generating SBOMs], but they might not have been doing
a standard-format SBOM. They would just be keeping an
inventory of all their software components.” (I4-Dev.&Sec.)
Second, although there are 7 minimum SBOM data fields
recommended by NTIA [7], in practice, generated SBOMs
don’t always meet the minimum bar [S9, 63.1% agree, 24.6%
disagree] for two main reasons (i.e., software vendor cus-
tomization, data availability). Some software vendors choose
only to include a subset of the minimum data fields, or
customize their minimum requirements to meet their respective
needs. According to I3, his/her organization “has its own
minimum requirements [different from NTIA’s]” (I3, Dev.).
Software vendors sometimes do not include all the minimum
data fields as the relevant data is not always attainable. “The
truth is, I tried to put in as much as what you said (7
minimum data fields). I don’t have access all the time to all
the details.” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)) As a result, when
relevant information of certain data fields is unavailable, the
generated SBOMs can be “full of non-assertion elements [...]
In practice, this means that, yes, the standards themselves can
support the NTIA recommendation; No, the tools are omitting
those fields or leaving them blank.” (I14-Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
Third, for some organizations producing SBOMs or building
SBOM tools to produce SBOMs, they want to include/sup-
port as much “useful” information in SBOMs [S10, 87.7%
agree, 4.6% disagree]. For the former, since an SBOM can
effectively help with internal software supply chain manage-
ment, they prefer to generate more comprehensive SBOMs
with additional information such as vulnerability. As I13
mentioned, “we want to produce the best information [...]
then the developers can look at it and then do their work”
(I13-Dev.&Sec.&Res.) For the latter, the more comprehensive
information their SBOM tools support, the more competitive
they are in the market. As stated by I11, “I also have a
big scope of metadata depending on the target other than
the base.” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)) Furthermore, as I14
pointed out, “something relatively worse happens [...] to
create business value [...] they are trying to extend it [an
SBOM] with things that may or may not be relevant to the
problem.” (I14-Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
Finding 4: Despite official recommendations on mini-
mum SBOM data fields, there is still a lack of consen-
sus on what to include in SBOMs.
5) SBOM distribution: In this subsection we discussed 3
statements (i.e., S11-S13 in Table III).
A considerable portion of the respondents agree that “or-
ganizations generate SBOMs for internal consumption, rather
than giving them to customers” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)
[S11, 40% agree, 38.5% disagree]. The authors notice a lack of
consensus on this statement from the survey respondents. We
believe this is consistent with the general “lack of consensus”
status of the SBOM as in the SBOM readiness report [5],
resulting from the relative recentness and lack of adoption.
However, since SBOMs are now being distributed in prac-
tice, proper distribution mechanisms are needed. According to
the SBOM readiness report [5], one of the leading concerns for
SBOM production is that some information inside an SBOM
is too sensitive and risky to be public. Since the source code
is already publicly available for OSS, their SBOMs should be
public. For proprietary software/components, although some
2635
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
of the SBOMs can be public, “authenticated [access control]
is going to be the norm” (I4-Dev.&Sec) [S12, 76.9% agree,
13.8% disagree], depending on the software vendors’ policies.
“At least for some segments of the market, I think access
management is part of it. You need to be able to share your
SBOMs with whomever you want to share, and not have all
of the world get access to it.” (I12-Cnslt.&Adv.)
Apart from access control, content tailoring (selective shar-
ing) is also helpful for mitigating the above concern. There can
be a negotiated compromise between the software vendor and
its downstream procurers on what to include in the distributed
SBOMs, instead of sharing the complete SBOMs [S13, 60%
agree, 24.6% disagree]. “There’s got to be a mechanism...
like a router in the middle, that takes the SBOMs or VEXs
produced by the suppliers and routes them down to each
end user, exactly what they need” (I0-Cnslt.&Adv.), so that
“only the right people can see the right information.” (I13-
Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
Finding 5: Proprietary and sensitive information in
SBOMs introduces barriers to SBOM distribution. Se-
lective sharing (content tailoring) and access control
mechanisms need to be considered.
6) SBOM validation: This subsection is based on S14 and
S15 (see Table III).
The lack of SBOM integrity validation is a shared problem
mentioned by 13 out of 17 interviewees. Without reliable vali-
dation measures [S15, 49.3% agree, 26.2% disagree], software
procurers may only roughly assess the quality of an SBOM
by referring to the SBOM producer’s reputation [S14, 50.8%
agree, 13.8% disagree]. SBOM integrity is two-fold: a) SBOM
data integrity (whether the SBOM has been tampered with),
and b) SBOM tooling integrity (tooling capability as to the
competence to generate complete and accurate SBOMs; and
tooling security as to whether the SBOM generation tools are
hacked). We discuss SBOM tooling integrity in Section IV-B4.
SBOM data tampering can come from outside and inside
an organization (i.e., external/internal tampering). External
tampering is more straightforward as an SBOM can be “easy
to tamper [with] and easy to fake” (I14-Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
without reliable validation methods. Thus, proper validation
mechanisms are needed (e.g., signing using sigstore’s Cosign).
Inside tampering means a software vendor may change the
SBOM data considering customer acceptance and security
issues. For example, I14 and I15 mentioned instances of
internal tampering based on their experiences:
a) “You could have a release engineer at the last minute,
realizing that they wanted to change the SBOM just because
otherwise, the customer wouldn’t take it. It’s not that the whole
organization lied. But it does mean that they got to tamper with
the SBOM that doesn’t again faithfully represent the product
that they weren’t given.” (I14-Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
b) “Whenever we are going to use an open source project,
there has to be a security check [...] if some kind of [vul-
nerable] code is there, we just need to remove it [...] we are
not actually passing those kinds of changes to the public.”
(I15-Dev.)
Finding 6: Trust in SBOM data needs to be assured
considering tampering threats. SBOM data valida-
tion/verification mechanisms and integrity services
are needed.
7) Vulnerability and exploitability: In this section we
discuss SBOMs for vulnerability management and the ex-
ploitability of vulnerabilities (i.e., S16 in Table III).
Although vulnerability management is a representative
SBOM use case [20], vulnerability management currently
barely considers the actual exploitability [S16, 73.8% agree,
13.8% disagree]. Nevertheless, the exploitability of a vulner-
ability should be taken seriously, as a vulnerability may not
necessarily be exploitable [21].
“I think it’s a very, very interesting point, and it’s a very
legit issue. Vulnerability and exploitability are totally different.
You can’t simply send a long report to the developers and ask
them to update each and every vulnerable dependency that
has been flagged. I know the development team might end up
ignoring your report, or come back at you saying, ‘are you
able to exploit this vulnerability? No? Then why should I go
and update it if you are unable to exploit it?’” (I9-Sec.)
As mitigation, vulnerabilities are often selectively fixed
based on the criticality (e.g., The Common Vulnerability
Scoring System (CVSS) score). As stated by I9, “if it’s a
critical or a high vulnerability [...] then make sure it is
updated. But when it comes to [a] medium or low [criticality
vulnerability], then ignore it.” (I9-Sec.) Although there are
efforts towards exploitability, such as CISA’s Known Exploited
Vulnerabilities Catalog that serves as a “must patch list”, there
are only limited records (around 800 as of August 2022) in
this catalog.
Vulnerability Exploitability eXchange (VEX) has emerged
as a tailored method to cope with such problems.  A VEX
is a security advisory produced by a software vendor that
allows the assertions of the vulnerability status of a software
product [22]. As companion artifacts to SBOMs [23], VEXs
provide SBOM operators with clearer understanding of the
vulnerabilities and suggested remediation.  However, cur-
rent exploitability evaluation is manual and subjective to the
domain knowledge of the security experts [24], [25]. Also,
“the ability to differentiate between whether it’s exploitable or
not is a hard thing to do itself” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)),
“especially if you want to automate it”. (I13–Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
What is more, “there is no way to confirm this [VEX], and
it’s actually very, very hard to prove a negative. So if you see
a VEX entry that says this [vulnerability] doesn’t hit me, the
only way to prove it wrong is to make an exploit yourself.
Again, if you are able to do that, then you’re almost making
things worse, right? (I14-Dev.&Sec.& Res.)”
 To further complicate this problem, there is hardly guar-
anteed unexploitability. As I11, an SBOM tool developer
2636
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
with security (hacker) experience, stated, “I agree the more
valuable these exploitable vulnerabilities are, but I don’t agree
that the ones defined less exploitable are not valuable. I used
to be on the attacker’s side [...] Hackers can take their time,
and they can find a way to put together a lot of things
that look very not exploitable, and at the end of the day,
find themselves with very easy and exploitable access.” (I11-
Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)) A possible solution is there should be
“potential exploitability” (I14-Dev.&Sec.& Res.).
Finding 7: It is unclear what to do with vulnerabilities
with limited exploitability exposed by SBOMs/VEXs.
8) AIBOM: This subsection is based on S16 (see Table III).
AI software is software with AI components. Compared
with SBOMs for traditional software, SBOMs for AI software
(i.e., AIBOMs) are different [S16, 47.7% agree, 24.6% dis-
agree]. Although some interviewees thought an AIBOM “con-
tains only additional AI package information” (I1-Dev.), the
AI artifacts (e.g., data, code, model, configuration) also need
provenance and co-versioning [26], [27]. An AIBOM (see
Fig. 1) records not only the software composition information
as a traditional SBOM, but also contains information about
the data/model/code/configuration co-versioning registries, al-
lowing transparency and accountability into the AI artifacts
for AI model training and evaluation. Considering the AI
software deployment is continuous progress (e.g., continuous
training in case of data/concept drift), these AI artifacts’ co-
versioning registries are more dynamic and subject to change,
while the component inventory information is relatively static.
To reduce frequent re-generation of the AIBOM, the co-
versioning registries can be independent of the AIBOMs,
instead of being embedded in the AIBOMs.
B. RQ2: What is the current state of SBOM tooling support?
This section discusses 6 statements (see T2 in Table III).
Although some practitioners argue that SBOM tools were not
necessary, the importance and necessity of SBOM tools are
recognized by most participants. However, the existing tools
still lack maturity in general and require further development.
1) Necessity of SBOM tools: This subsection is based on
S18 in Table III.
The most interesting argument about SBOM tooling is
the necessity of using SBOM tools to generate SBOMs.
Since currently few organizations (e.g., the US government
agencies) are actually requiring SBOMs to be provided upon
software delivery,  some interviewees think they do not
have to generate SBOMs, especially when most SBOM tools
serve like a “proxy”: they merely feed the existing metadata
(e.g., package manager) into a standard format, but the data
is already there with or without SBOMs. “We do not use
SBOMs internally [...] because we have tools, which is where
the SBOM information is coming anyway: package manager.
Those tools generally just take a look at the files in the system
and the configuration of the system, whereas SBOM tools just
essentially parse those and then try to use that in a format. So,
if we don’t have a lot of end users... why would we introduce
this (SBOM)? It’s like a middleman that really doesn’t produce
much.” (I14-Dev.&Sec.&Res.)
 That being said, most survey respondents think generat-
ing SBOMs using SBOM tools is necessary [S18, 83.1%
agree, 10.8% disagree], which is consistent with the benefit
of standardization and unification of the software composition
data enabled by SBOMs discussed in Section IV-A1. Gen-
erating SBOMs is more than simply putting metadata from
different sources into a standard format as SBOMs are usually
enriched with information such as licenses.
2) Availability of SBOM tools: In this subsection, we
discussed statements S19-S20 in Table III.
Tooling is an integral part of SBOM, as SBOMs are not
manually generated nor intended for direct human consump-
tion. The generation and consumption of SBOMs rely on
SBOM tools. “Shift left” originates from DevSecOps [28],
which means shifting the security work to earlier stages of
the software development life cycle so that security issues can
be identified and fixed earlier. Considering there is a “lack of
more developer-oriented (SBOM) tools that are more familiar
by developers” (I7-Sec.), and SBOMs are tightly coupled with
security tasks, SBOM tools should also consider “shift left”.
Despite there is a lot of existing SBOM tools as mentioned
in Section II, contrary to the finding in the SBOM readiness
report [5] that “SBOM consumption mirrors SBOM produc-
tion”, our finding shows that currently, the “SBOM genera-
tion is ahead of SBOM consumption” (I17-Cnslt.&Adv.), and
there are significantly limited tools for SBOM consumption
[S19, 75.4% agree, 12.3% disagree]. As stated by I17, “the
large bucket of what we don’t have today in 2022 is SBOM
consumption.” (I17-Cnslt.&Adv.) Without SBOM consumption
tools, even if an SBOM was provided to a software procurer,
the procurer would wonder, “what do I do with the SBOMs?
How do I process them? How do I analyze them?” (I12-
Cnslt.&Adv.) Besides dedicated SBOM consumption tools, a
possible solution is to feed SBOMs into existing IT asset
management tools [S20, 41.5% agree, 12.3% disagree], which
requires functional extensions.
3) Usability of SBOM tools: This section discusses S21-
S22 in Table III.
Although the SBOM tools market is proliferating with the
expectation to “explode” in 2022 and 2023 [5], the usability
of existing tools remains an issue. SBOM tools can be hard to
use due to various reasons. (e.g., complexity, aggressivity, lack
of generalization) [S21, 64.6% agree, 18.5% disagree]. For
example, “to use the CycloneDX Maven plugin, it’s required
to import this plugin in the POM.xml file. For open source
software, it is all right. But for proprietary software, this
introduces invasion, which can be a problem”. (I3-Dev.)
Although four interviewees (i.e., I9-I12) mentioned that
there were user-friendly tools such as Dependency-track, the
interviewees also acknowledged that most SBOM tools were
open source and not enterprise-ready. A problem with open
source tools is, “an organization needs to have the capability
of knowing open source projects, running them, fine-tuning
2637
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
them towards its needs, maintaining them” (I12-Cnslt.&Adv.),
which can be a considerable problem for smaller-scale orga-
nizations and start-ups.
Tooling interoperability and standardization also hinder the
usability of SBOM tools [S22, 73.8% agree, 10.8% disagree].
As mentioned by I17, SBOM tooling is also “an area where
we need further harmonization and standardization.” (I17-
Cnslt.& Adv.) For instance, the SBOM data (e.g., component
hash) of the same software/components generated by different
tools can be different [7], while “the whole point of a hash is
that it should be the same [for the same component], so that
[...] downstream users can validate it”. (I17-Cnslt.& Adv.)
4) Integrity of SBOM tools: In this subsection, we discuss
SBOM tooling integrity based on S23 in Table III.
As mentioned in Section IV-A6, SBOM integrity consists
of SBOM data integrity and SBOM tooling integrity. SBOM
tooling integrity also includes two aspects: a) tooling compe-
tence: the completeness and accuracy of the accuracy caused
by SBOM tooling capability; and b) tooling security: whether
the SBOM generation toolchain has been maliciously altered.
Most respondents agree that the integrity of SBOMs gen-
erated by existing tools cannot be validated [S23, 69.2%
agree, 18.5% disagree]. The accuracy and completeness of
the generated SBOMs caused by tooling competence is a
common concern for generating SBOMs. To the best of our
knowledge, there is no comprehensive measure or validation
against such unintentional mistakes from the end users’ point
of view. However, the intentional tampering resulting from
compromised toolchains is another story. One possible solution
is to evaluate the SBOM tools’ assurance based on Automated
Rapid Certification Of Software (ARCOS) [29] though it is
still a work in progress.
Finding 8: There is a lack of maturity in SBOM tool-
ing. More reliable, user-friendly, standard-conformable,
and interoperable enterprise-level SBOM tools, espe-
cially SBOM consumption tools, are needed.
C. RQ3: What are the main concerns for SBOM?
This section investigates practitioners’ main concerns for
SBOMs based on T3 in Table III. During the interviews,
SBOM tool developers’ common concern lay with the SBOM
standard formats. Most respondents remained concerned about
SBOMs being “roadmaps for attackers” [30]. The most fun-
damental issue is the lack of SBOM adoption and education.
1) SBOM formats’ lack of extensibility: In this subsection
we discussed S24 in Table III.
There are mainly two competing SBOM standard formats
(i.e., SPDX and CycloneDX), and neither can fully meet
current market needs [S24, 35.4% agree, 33.8% disagree].
Notably, this statement was mentioned by both interviewees
(i.e., I11, I16) working on SBOM tool development. Although
the respondents show a discrepancy and lack of consensus on
this statement, it is consistent with the interview results.
Interestingly, I11 considered the SBOM format standardiza-
tion to be one of the most significant benefits, while agreed
the existing standards remain to be developed.  On the one
hand, “the big advantage [of SBOMs] is standardization.
The formats allow a lot of people to understand the same
language” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)). It offers “a unified
framework to communicate software composition information”
(I14-Dev.&Sec.& Res.).  On the other hand, some think the
formats are not extensible enough. For example, “current for-
mats only support one dependency relationship, DependsOn”
(I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)). We summarized possible format
extension points in Section V-A2 based on the interviews.
a) “My biggest concern is the dynamicity and the ability to
use the standard formats of SBOM [...] to define the things I
want to do with these SBOMs.” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool))
b) “My biggest concern [...] is that the standardization is
really kind of not good [...] competing standards [...] different
properties, and different kinds of purposes. But consolidating
down until reasonable sets of things are the same between the
competing formats would be great.” (I16-Dev.(SBOM tool))
Finding 9: Although there is a set of standard formats,
they require further consensus, standardization as
well as additional extension points.
2) SBOM information sensitivity: In this section, we dis-
cussed S25 in Table III.
There are two types of opinions among the participants
about the SBOM information sensitivity issue:  Some think
certain information inside the SBOM is too risky and sensitive
to be public, and the information inside an SBOM may serve
the attackers as a ”roadmap” of the software and supply
chain [S25, 63.1% agree, 20% disagree].  Meanwhile, others
believe that there is no need to worry as the attackers do not
need SBOMs because they already have tools to easily get
the software composition information. SBOMs are actually
roadmaps for defenders to help level the playing field [30]. Just
as I4 stated, “on the surface, it seems like a valid concern. But
[...] if you’re highly sophisticated cooperation, you probably
don’t necessarily need this information. As a start-up, you
don’t get to be a target in an attack [...] I think the benefit
of that visibility is certainly on the defender’s side.” (I4-
Dev.&Sec.)
In addition, access control and content tailoring (see Section
IV-A5) can also play a role in mitigating this concern.
3) SBOM adoption and education deficiency: In this sec-
tion, we discussed S26 in Table III.
The most fundamental and imminent concern is limited
SBOM adoption [S26, 80% agree, 7.7% disagree]. Organiza-
tions may have various reasons for their hesitation to SBOM
adoption. For example, they may worry about the industrial
consensus or SBOMs’ value to customers, or they may lack
even the most basic IT asset management.
a) “I’m actually a bit worried about the people producing and
consuming SBOMs because I think the market is not really
2638
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
ready. They need to [be] educate(d), and many people don’t
know what SBOMs are.” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool))
b) “For SBOMs to become valuable to consume, many people
need to produce [SBOMs] [...] So one of the concerns I have
about SBOMs is, is everybody going to follow this pattern [to
produce SBOMs]? Because there’re obviously people [saying]
it’s not accurate so they don’t want to produce it.” (I6-Dev.)
However, despite being concerned about SBOM adoption,
I6 also agreed that “even the less accurate ones are better
than adding no visibility” (I6-Dev.). Because “there’s always
going to be a maturity problem. The idea that because some
people can’t use SBOM so others shouldn’t [...] That’s not
how we do security.” (I17-Cnslt.&Adv.)
SBOM education is needed not only to educate the public
for increased SBOM adoption, but the SBOM practitioners
also need to be educated and realize SBOMs have unaddressed
issues before they rush into generating SBOMs. “The problem
right now is that we are almost putting the cart before the
horse – we’re expecting the SBOMs to fix the problems rather
than fixing the problems with an SBOM.” (I14-Dev.&Sec.)
Finding 10: There is a lack of market awareness and
good value propositions for SBOM adoption. SBOM
advocators need to: a) leverage relevant regulation
and use cases such as procurement evaluation and
supply chain risk management to improve SBOM
awareness; and b) promote more SBOM consump-
tion tools with clear benefits.
V. D ISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS
A. Implications
This section discusses below key implications for future
SBOM research and development.
1) Goal model: Based on the study results, we present
a goal model for future SBOM endeavors (see Fig. 3). As
mentioned in Sections IV-A2 and IV-C3, the lack of SBOM
adoption causes a substantial obstacle to SBOM progress.
To achieve increased SBOM adoption and more SBOM-
enabled benefits, there are three goals to be satisfied:
a) Higher-quality SBOM generation (findings 3, 4, 6,
8, and 9): maturer tooling support for the generation of
more standardized tamper-proof “dynamic” SBOMs [31]. For
instance, further standardization on SBOM-included data fields
is needed. SBOM industry should strictly conform to an agreed
minimum data fields, while considering different industry and
business sectors when adding optional data fields.
b) Clearer benefits and use cases for SBOM consumption
(findings 1, 2, 10): SBOM education (e.g., on SBOM-enabled
benefits) results in increased SBOM adoption (including con-
sumption); Increased SBOM adoption, in turn, leads to more
developed SBOM-centric ecosystems with favorable use cases.
c) Lower barriers in SBOM sharing and distribution
(findings 5 and 7): The distribution and sharing of SBOMs and
the vulnerability status (e.g., VEXs) need to be more flexible
with proper mechanisms that meet both the software ven-
dors’ and procurers’ needs. Technologies such as Blockchain,
confidential computing (e.g., zero-knowledge proofs, secure
multiparty computation for sharing without access) can poten-
tially be leveraged to communicate SBOM data. During the
distribution of SBOM data, there also need to be risk-based
flexible policies to communicate unfixed vulnerabilities.
Fig. 3. SBOM goal model.
2) Format extension points: As discussed in Section IV-C,
the interviewees mentioned several potential extensions to the
existing SBOM formats. Other than supporting more depen-
dency relationship types, another possible extension point is
component types. “For example, the components of a Git is
the commits, and CycloneDX does not have such a compo-
nent [type] defined.” (I11-Dev.&Sec.(SBOM tool)) The third
extension point is file location. “My organization has its own
SBOM format [...] which has [...] things like where does it find
something in a file system [...] However, formats like SPDX
might not have a place for that.” (I16-Dev.(SBOM tool)) Also,
Microsoft include build provenance information for tamper-
evident SBOMs. Apart from the points mentioned above,
another essential point is verifiable credentials [26] embedded
in or linked to an SBOM. For traditional software, such
credentials can prove the validity of software/components.
For AI software, responsible AI-related information such as
conformance to certain AI ethics principles can be included.
B. Positioning with respect to SBOM readiness report
This section compares the key differences between our
findings and the SBOM readiness report’s results.
Overall, the SBOM readiness report adopts an organiza-
tional perspective (e.g., industry-wide challenges and oppor-
tunities) while our study focuses on SBOM practitioners’
perspectives and offers a more fine-grained investigation.
Specifically, this study broadens and deepens the SBOM
readiness report mainly from 9 SBOM-related aspects: ben-
efits, adoption, generation, distribution, integrity, vulnerability
management, tooling, concerns, and AIBOM (See Table IV).
C. Threats to validity
The number of survey participants may pose a threat to
validity. However, considering the relative novelty of SBOM
and the lack of SBOM adoption, we made our best effort and
included participants from different backgrounds. To minimize
the impact of limited SBOM understanding, we provided the
2639
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
TABLE IV
SBOM READINESS REPORT V. S . THIS PAPER
Topics SBOM readiness report This paper
Benefits 16 specific benefits of SBOMs (10 for producing and 6 for
consuming SBOMs), all enabled by transparency.
Transparency, and subsequently enabled accountability, traceability, and
security. (Finding 1)
Adoption 90% surveyed organizations have started SBOM journey;
47% are using (i.e., producing/consuming) SBOMs.
SBOM adoption is worrying: limited generation & more limited consumption.
(Findings 1, 2, 10)
Generation
a) SBOMs can be generated at different SDLC stages.
b) More organizations favor including more than baseline
SBOM information.
a) SBOMs can be generated at different SDLC stages but practitioners expect
“dynamic” SBOM generation throughout SDLC (Finding 3).
b) SBOM-included data fields need further standardization (Finding 4).
Distribution N/A Secure yet flexible SBOM distribution mechanisms are needed. (Finding 5)
Integrity N/A SBOM integrity assurances are needed against tampering threats. (Finding 6)
Vulnerability SBOMs should reflect vulnerability information.
a) Organizations may not want to share sensitive (vulnerability) data
(Finding 5).
b) Mechanisms are needed to communicate vulnerabilities with limited/
undetermined exploitability (Finding 7).
Tooling Limited availability of SBOM tooling Affirmed necessity but limited availability, usability, and integrity of SBOM
tooling. (Finding 8)
Concerns
4 shared concerns for production & consumption: industry
commitment, data fields consensus, value of SBOMs,
tooling availability. 2 additional concerns for production:
information privacy, correctness.
Explicitly identifies 3 major concerns but covers more throughout
a) Standard formats’ lack of extensibility (Finding 9).
b) SBOM information sensitivity & privacy (Finding 5).
c) Adoption and education deficiency (Finding 10).
AIBOM N/A AIBOM should also include AI/ML-specific data. (Section IV-A8)
option for respondents to skip the survey if they are not
familiar with SBOMs. Despite these measures, it’s possible
that the collected responses may not accurately reflect the
participants’ beliefs. This is a common and acceptable threat
to validity in similar studies, which assume that the majority
of responses are truthful.
VI. R ELATED WORK
On the one hand, there has been work on SSC security.
For instance, Ohm et al. [4] summarized 174 OSS packages
used for real-world malicious SSC attacks. Blockchain has
been applied to SSC security (e.g., [32]–[34]. Especially,
Marjanovi´c et al. [35] used blockchain-based techniques to
record the software composition details. On the other hand,
there are limited scholarly papers on SBOMs. Martin et al. [20]
introduced the concept of the SBOM and listed nine possible
use scenarios. In 2021, Carmody et al. [36] presented a high-
level overview of how SBOMs help build resilient medical
SSCs. They illustrated the benefits of SBOMs for software pro-
ducers, consumers and regulators, as well as relevant progress
on SBOMs. Back in 2019, Barclay et al. [37] introduced their
ideas on applying BOMs to data ecosystems for transparency
and traceability, where they detailed a conceptual model to
combine a BOM (static) and a bill of lots (dynamic) to jointly
record the static data components and the dynamic data of
a specific experiment. Based on their previous work, Barclay
et al. [38] recently introduced their work using a BOM as a
verifiable credential for transparency into the AI SSCs, which
is a step towards AIBOM.
In recent years, there have been numerous studies related
to SBOMs, such as software composition analysis (SCA),
release engineering, and reproducible builds. For example,
Imtiaz et al. [39] compared various SCA tools for vulnerability
reporting, and Ombredanne et al. [40] reviewed SCA tools for
license compliance. The application of SCA in the automotive
industry was discussed by Kengo Oka et al. [41], and Mackey
et al. [42] explored integrating automated SCA into DevOps
processes. In the area of release engineering, Openja et al. [43]
studied modern release engineering topics and challenges on
StackOverflow, while Laukkanen et al. [44] compared release
engineering practices between a mature company and a startup.
Bi et al. [45] investigated the production and use of release
notes. Lastly, the production of verifiable builds was explored
in works such as [46]–[48].
VII. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
SBOMs are essential to SSC security considering the trans-
parency enabled by SBOMs and the subsequently enhanced
accountability, traceability and security. In this study, we inter-
viewed 17 and surveyed 65 SBOM practitioners on their per-
ception of SBOMs. Despite the promising SSC transparency
and security enabled by SBOMs, there are still open challenges
to be addressed. To accelerate the adoption of SBOMs, higher-
quality SBOM generation, clearer benefits and use cases in
SBOM consumption, and lower barriers in SBOM sharing
are prerequisites which need to be further studied, mitigated
and addressed. In addition, SBOMs for AI software (i.e.,
AIBOM) are an inevitable trend given the popularity of AI
applications, and AIBOMs need to consider the co-evolution
of data/model/code/configuration.
A CKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to sincerely thank all the interview
and survey participants for their help and support. This work
could never have been completed without them.
2640
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
R EFERENCES
[1] NTIA, “Framing Software Component Transparency: Establishing a
Common Software Bill of Material (SBOM).” [Online]. Available:
https://ntia.gov/files/ntia/publications/framingsbom 20191112.pdf
[2] Wikipedia contributors, “Solarwinds — Wikipedia, the free encyclo-
pedia,” https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=SolarWinds&oldid=
1104117684, 2022, [Online; accessed 25-August-2022].
[3] Sonatype, “The 2021 State of the Software Supply Chain Report.”
[Online]. Available: https://www.sonatype.com/resources/state-of-the-
software-supply-chain-2021
[4] M. Ohm, H. Plate, A. Sykosch, and M. Meier, “Backstabber’s knife
collection: A review of open source software supply chain attacks,” in
International Conference on Detection of Intrusions and Malware, and
Vulnerability Assessment. Springer, 2020, pp. 23–43.
[5] “The State of Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) and Cybersecurity
Readiness.” [Online]. Available: https://www.linuxfoundation.org/
tools/the- state- of- software- bill- of- materials- sbom- and- cybersecurity-
readiness/
[6] A. Singh, R. Bansal, and N. Jha, “Open source software vs proprietary
software,” International Journal of Computer Applications, vol. 114,
no. 18, 2015.
[7] NTIA, “The Minimum Elements For a Software Bill of Materials
(SBOM).” [Online]. Available: https://www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/
publications/sbom minimum elements report.pdf
[8] Gartner Research, “Innovation Insight for SBOMs.” [Online]. Available:
https://www.gartner.com/en/documents/4011501
[9] J. Jiao, M. M. Tseng, Q. Ma, and Y. Zou, “Generic bill-of-materials-
and-operations for high-variety production management,” Concurrent
Engineering, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 297–321, 2000.
[10] Google Cloud, “Delivering software securely.” [Online]. Available: https:
//cloud.google.com/resources/delivering-software-securely-whitepaper
[11] B. Bensing, “History of the Software Bill of Materials (SBOM).”
[Online]. Available: https://billbensing.com/software- supply- chain/
history-software-bill-of-material-sbom/
[12] “Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity,” May
2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-
room/presidential- actions/2021/05/12/executive- order- on- improving-
the-nations-cybersecurity/
[13] E-SPIN, “The Evolution of Software Composition Analysis (SCA),”
https://www.e- spincorp.com/the- evolution- of- software- composition-
analysissca/, 2018, [Online; accessed 25-August-2022].
[14] S. Easterbrook, J. Singer, M.-A. Storey, and D. Damian, “Selecting
empirical methods for software engineering research,” in Guide to
advanced empirical software engineering. Springer, 2008, pp. 285–
311.
[15] J. A. Smith, “Qualitative psychology: A practical guide to research
methods,” Qualitative psychology, pp. 1–312, 2015.
[16] T. Bi, X. Xia, D. Lo, J. Grundy, T. Zimmermann, and D. Ford,
“Accessibility in software practice: A practitioner’s perspective,” ACM
Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (TOSEM),
vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 1–26, 2022.
[17] J. Cohen, “A coefficient of agreement for nominal scales,” Educational
and psychological measurement, vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 37–46, 1960.
[18] B. A. Kitchenham and S. L. Pfleeger, “Personal opinion surveys,” in
Guide to advanced empirical software engineering. Springer, 2008,
pp. 63–92.
[19] X. Hu, X. Xia, D. Lo, Z. Wan, Q. Chen, and T. Zimmermann,
“Practitioners’ expectations on automated code comment generation,”
in Proceedings of the 44th International Conference on Software
Engineering, ser. ICSE ’22. New York, NY, USA: Association
for Computing Machinery, 2022, p. 1693–1705. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3510152
[20] R. A. Martin, “Visibility & control: Addressing supply chain challenges
to trustworthy software-enabled things,” in 2020 IEEE Systems Security
Symposium (SSS), 2020, pp. 1–4.
[21] J. Yin, M. Tang, J. Cao, and H. Wang, “Apply transfer learning
to cybersecurity: Predicting exploitability of vulnerabilities by
description,” Knowledge-Based Systems, vol. 210, p. 106529, 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0950705120306584
[22] CISA, “Vulnerability Exploitability eXchange (VEX) - Status Justifica-
tions,” p. 13, 2022.
[23] NTIA, “Sharing and Exchanging SBOMs.” [Online]. Available: https:
//www.ntia.doc.gov/files/ntia/publications/ntia sbom framing sharing
july9.pdf
[24] A. A. Younis, Y. K. Malaiya, and I. Ray, “Using attack surface
entry points and reachability analysis to assess the risk of software
vulnerability exploitability,” in 2014 IEEE 15th International Symposium
on High-Assurance Systems Engineering, 2014, pp. 1–8.
[25] B. Slava, “The end goal for SBOMs - lessons
learned from parallel cybersecurity markets | LinkedIn.”
[Online]. Available: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/end-goal-sboms-
lessons - learned - from - parallel - markets - slava - bronfman/?trackingId =
L48%2BvRWJfddIMba1jDSHNQ%3D%3D
[26] Q. Lu, L. Zhu, X. Xu, J. Whittle, and Z. Xing, “Towards a Roadmap
on Software Engineering for Responsible AI,” in 2022 IEEE/ACM 1st
International Conference on AI Engineering – Software Engineering for
AI (CAIN), 2022, pp. 101–112.
[27] I. Barclay, A. Preece, I. Taylor, S. K. Radha, and J. Nabrzyski,
“Providing assurance and scrutability on shared data and machine
learning models with verifiable credentials,” Concurrency and
Computation: Practice and Experience, vol. n/a, no. n/a, p. e6997,
eprint: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/cpe.6997. [On-
line]. Available: https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/
cpe.6997
[28] R. N. Rajapakse, M. Zahedi, M. A. Babar, and H. Shen, “Challenges and
solutions when adopting DevSecOps: A systematic review,” Information
and Software Technology, vol. 141, p. 106700, 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0950584921001543
[29] W. Martin, “Automated Rapid Certification Of Software.”
[Online]. Available: https://www.darpa.mil/program/automated-rapid-
certification-of-software
[30] “Sbom Myths vs. Facts.” [Online]. Available: https://www.ntia.gov/
files/ntia/publications/sbom myths vs facts nov2021.pdf
[31] Rezilion, “Dynamic SBOM: A Comprehensive Guide,” https : / /
www.rezilion.com/blog/dynamic-sbom-a-comprehensive-guide/, 2022,
[Online; accessed 31-August-2022].
[32] M. Mylrea and S. N. G. Gourisetti, “Blockchain for supply chain
cybersecurity, optimization and compliance,” in 2018 Resilience Week
(RWS), 2018, pp. 70–76.
[33] E. Bandara, S. Shetty, A. Rahman, and R. Mukkamala, “Let’strace
— blockchain, federated learning and tuf/in-toto enabled cyber supply
chain provenance platform,” in MILCOM 2021 - 2021 IEEE Military
Communications Conference (MILCOM), 2021, pp. 470–476.
[34] H. Zhang, T. Nakamura, and K. Sakurai, “Security and trust issues
on digital supply chain,” in 2019 IEEE Intl Conf on Dependable,
Autonomic and Secure Computing, Intl Conf on Pervasive Intelligence
and Computing, Intl Conf on Cloud and Big Data Computing, Intl Conf
on Cyber Science and Technology Congress (DASC/PiCom/CBDCom/-
CyberSciTech), 2019, pp. 338–343.
[35] J. Marjanovi´c, N. Dalˇcekovi´c, and G. Sladi´c, “Improving critical infras-
tructure protection by enhancing software acquisition process through
blockchain,” in 7th Conference on the Engineering of Computer Based
Systems, 2021, pp. 1–7.
[36] S. Carmody, A. Coravos, G. Fahs, A. Hatch, J. Medina, B. Woods, and
J. Corman, “Building resilient medical technology supply chains with a
software bill of materials,” npj Digital Medicine, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1–6,
Feb. 2021, number: 1 Publisher: Nature Publishing Group. [Online].
Available: https://www.nature.com/articles/s41746-021-00403-w
[37] I. Barclay, A. Preece, I. Taylor, and D. Verma, “Towards traceability
in data ecosystems using a bill of materials model,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1904.04253, 2019.
[38] I. Barclay, A. Preece, I. Taylor, S. K. Radha, and J. Nabrzyski, “Pro-
viding assurance and scrutability on shared data and machine learning
models with verifiable credentials,” Concurrency and Computation:
Practice and Experience, p. e6997, 2022.
[39] N. Imtiaz, S. Thorn, and L. Williams, “A comparative study of
vulnerability reporting by software composition analysis tools,” in
Proceedings of the 15th ACM / IEEE International Symposium on
Empirical Software Engineering and Measurement (ESEM), ser. ESEM
’21. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery,
2021. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3475716.3475769
[40] P. Ombredanne, “Free and open source software license compliance:
Tools for software composition analysis,” Computer, vol. 53, no. 10,
pp. 105–109, 2020.
2641
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.
[41] D. Kengo Oka, Software Composition Analysis in the Automotive
Industry. Wiley, 2021, pp. 91–110. [Online]. Available: https:
//ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9821841
[42] T. Mackey, “Building open source security into agile application builds,”
Network Security, vol. 2018, no. 4, pp. 5–8, 2018.
[43] M. Openja, B. Adams, and F. Khomh, “Analysis of modern release
engineering topics : – a large-scale study using stackoverflow –,” in 2020
IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution
(ICSME), Sep. 2020, pp. 104–114.
[44] E. Laukkanen, M. Paasivaara, J. Itkonen, and C. Lassenius, “Comparison
of release engineering practices in a large mature company and a
startup,” Empirical Software Engineering, vol. 23, no. 6, pp. 3535–3577,
2018.
[45] T. Bi, X. Xia, D. Lo, J. Grundy, and T. Zimmermann, “An empirical
study of release note production and usage in practice,” IEEE Transac-
tions on Software Engineering, vol. 48, no. 6, pp. 1834–1852, 2020.
[46] Y. Shi, M. Wen, F. R. Cogo, B. Chen, and Z. M. Jiang, “An experi-
ence report on producing verifiable builds for large-scale commercial
systems,” IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, vol. 48, no. 9,
pp. 3361–3377, Sep. 2022.
[47] J. Xiong, Y. Shi, B. Chen, F. R. Cogo, and Z. M. J. Jiang,
“Towards build verifiability for java-based systems,” in Proceedings of
the 44th International Conference on Software Engineering: Software
Engineering in Practice, ser. ICSE-SEIP ’22. New York, NY, USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2022, p. 297–306. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3510457.3513050
[48] Z. Ren, S. Sun, J. Xuan, X. Li, Z. Zhou, and H. Jiang, “Automated
patching for unreproducible builds,” in Proceedings of the 44th
International Conference on Software Engineering, ser. ICSE ’22.
New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery, 2022, p.
200–211. [Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3510003.3510102
2642
Authorized licensed use limited to: Innopolis University. Downloaded on March 22,2026 at 13:51:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.