..Latest updates: hps://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3475716.3475769 . .
RESEARCH-ARTICLE
A comparative study of vulnerability reporting by soware composition
analysis tools
NASIF IMTIAZ, NC State University, Raleigh, NC, United States .
SEAVER THORN, NC State University, Raleigh, NC, United States .
LAURIE WILLIAMS, NC State University, Raleigh, NC, United States . . .
Open Access Support provided by: .
NC State University .
PDF Download
3475716.3475769.pdf
23 March 2026
Total Citations: 65
Total Downloads: 1812 . .
Published: 11 October 2021 . .
Citation in BibTeX format . .
ESEM '21: ACM / IEEE International
Symposium on Empirical Soware
Engineering and Measurement
October 11 - 15, 2021
Bari, Italy . .
Conference Sponsors:
SIGSOFT
ESEM '21: Proceedings of the 15th ACM / IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Soware Engineering and Measurement (ESEM) (October 2021)
hps://doi.org/10.1145/3475716.3475769
ISBN: 9781450386654
.
A comparative study of vulnerability reporting by software
composition analysis tools
Nasif Imtiaz
simtiaz@ncsu.edu
North Carolina State University
North Carolina, USA
Seaver Thorn
swthorn@ncsu.edu
North Carolina State University
North Carolina, USA
Laurie Williams
lawilli3@ncsu.edu
North Carolina State University
North Carolina, USA
ABSTRACT
Background: Modern software uses many third-party libraries and
frameworks as dependencies. Known vulnerabilities in these depen-
dencies are a potential security risk. Software composition analysis
(SCA) tools, therefore, are being increasingly adopted by practition-
ers to keep track of vulnerable dependencies. Aim: The goal of this
study is to understand the difference in vulnerability reporting by
various SCA tools. Understanding if and how existing SCA tools
differ in their analysis may help security practitioners to choose
the right tooling and identify future research needs. Method: We
present an in-depth case study by comparing the analysis reports of
9 industry-leading SCA tools on a large web application, OpenMRS,
composed of Maven (Java) and npm (JavaScript) projects. Results:
We find that the tools vary in their vulnerability reporting. The
count of reported vulnerable dependencies ranges from 17 to 332
for Maven and from 32 to 239 for npm projects across the studied
tools. Similarly, the count of unique known vulnerabilities reported
by the tools ranges from 36 to 313 for Maven and from 45 to 234 for
npm projects. Our manual analysis of the tools’ results suggest that
accuracy of the vulnerability database is a key differentiator for
SCA tools. Conclusion: We recommend that practitioners should
not rely on any single tool at the present, as that can result in miss-
ing known vulnerabilities. We point out two research directions in
the SCA space: i) establishing frameworks and metrics to identify
false positives for dependency vulnerabilities; and ii) building au-
tomation technologies for continuous monitoring of vulnerability
data from open source package ecosystems.
KEYWORDS
software composition analysis, supply chain security, vulnerability,
dependency, security tools, case study
ACM Reference Format:
Nasif Imtiaz, Seaver Thorn, and Laurie Williams. 2021. A comparative study
of vulnerability reporting by software composition analysis tools. In ACM /
IEEE International Symposium on Empirical Software Engineering and Mea-
surement (ESEM) (ESEM ’21), October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy. ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 11 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3475716.3475769
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy
© 2021 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8665-4/21/10. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3475716.3475769
1 INTRODUCTION
Most modern software uses third-party open source libraries, pack-
ages, or frameworks that are referred to as dependencies. A Black
Duck report found 98% of the 1,546 audited commercial codebases
in 2020 contained open source packages with an average of 528
packages per codebase [ 47]. However, known vulnerabilities in de-
pendencies are one of the top ten security risks [37]. The Black Duck
audit also found 84% of the codebases to contain at least one publicly
known vulnerability in their open source dependencies [47].
Software composition analysis (SCA) tools are used to report
known vulnerabilities in the open source dependencies of a soft-
ware. However, these tools may differ in how they detect the de-
pendencies and the vulnerability database they maintain. A com-
parative study is yet to be performed to review the existing SCA
tools and determine if and how they differ. Furthermore, not all
alerts generated by SCA tools are relevant or high priority to the
developers [ 39]. If and how existing SCA tools aid developers in
assessing the risk of the vulnerabilities from the context of the
client application needs to be studied to help future research.
The goal of this study is to aid security practitioners and re-
searchers in understanding the vulnerability reporting by software
composition analysis tools through a comparative study of these
tools on a real-world case study. Our research questions are:
RQ1: What are the differences between vulnerability
reports produced by the different software composi-
tion analysis (SCA) tools?
RQ2: What metrics are presented by the SCA tools
to aid in the risk assessment of dependency vulnera-
bilities?
To answer, we present an in-depth case study by running 9 SCA
tools on a large web application, OpenMRS, that utilizes two popu-
lar package ecosystems. The application consists of 43 Maven (Java)
and 5 npm (JavaScript) projects. The studied SCA tools vary in their
scanning technique and vulnerability database, and represent the
state-of-the-art. The contributions of this paper include the first
evaluation of the SCA tools through (a) a quantitative compari-
son of their vulnerability reports on a real-world case study, (b) a
manual analysis of the differences among the tools’ reports, and (c)
characterization of metrics provided by the tools for assessment of
the dependency vulnerabilities.
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows: Section
2 introduces the key concepts and terminologies; Section 3 and
4 explains the evaluation case study and the studied SCA tools.
Section 5 discusses the findings of this paper, followed by discussion
and limitations of the findings. Section 8 discusses related work,
followed by conclusion.
ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy Nasif Imtiaz, Seaver Thorn, and Laurie Williams
2 KEY CONCEPTS & TERMINOLOGIES:
Dependency: When a software uses an open source package, the
package is referred to as dependency of the software. Typically, a
software declares a specific or a range of valid versions of a package
as its dependency in a manifest file that we refer to as dependency
file. However, a software may use open source package or code
fragments without explicit declaration as well [29 ]. In the remainder
of this paper, we refer to ‘dependency’ as a specific version of a
package. For example, version 1.0.0 and version 2.0.0 of the same
package A will be considered as distinct dependencies. However,
they will be considered as the same package.
The dependencies declared through dependency files are re-
solved through some package manager. pom.xml and package.json
are dependency files for Maven and npm package manager, respec-
tively. The dependencies that a software accesses directly from
its own code are called direct dependencies. However, the direct
dependencies may depend on other open source packages that are
required by the host machine to run the software successfully. Such
packages are called transitive dependencies. Therefore, for most
package managers, including Maven and npm, the whole depen-
dency structure is hierarchical and forms a tree format. The depth
of a dependency refers to their level in the dependency tree, with
direct dependencies having a depth of one.
Vulnerability: NIST [ 36 ] defines vulnerability as "weakness
in an information system, system security procedures, internal
controls, or implementation that could be exploited or triggered by a
threat source." If a vulnerability gets exploited by a threat source, the
potential for loss or damage is referred to as risk of the vulnerability.
Vulnerabilities can get discovered in already released versions of
software packages. If reported, respective package maintainers can
fix the vulnerability in a new version. When a dependency of a
software is subject to publicly known vulnerabilities, it is referred
to as a vulnerable dependency.
Software Composition Analysis (SCA): SCA is a part of ap-
plication analysis that deals with managing open source use. SCA
tools typically generate an inventory of all the open source com-
ponents in a software product and analyze the license compliance
and the presence of any known vulnerabilities in them. By the
vulnerability detection capability of SCA tools, we mean the ability
to identify and report known vulnerabilities in the open source
components used by a software application.
Disclosed and Discovered Vulnerabilities: The National Vul-
nerability Database (NVD) [ 8] is the U.S. government repository
of publicly accessible standards-based vulnerability management
data. The primary reference-tracking system for publicly disclosed
vulnerabilities in the NVD database is the Common Vulnerabilities
and Exposure (CVE) system where each vulnerability is referenced
by a unique CVE identifier, a system developed by Mitre [7].
Additionally, SCA tools augment NVD vulnerabilities/CVEs with
vulnerabilities found in other databases, such as npm Security Ad-
visories [ 9 ], Sonatype OSS Index [ 16], and GitHub security advi-
sories [5], that do not necessarily have a CVE identifier. Similarly,
SCA tools can also have proprietary techniques to discover vulner-
abilities in open source packages [ 23, 50 ] as explained in Section
4.1. In this paper, vulnerabilities reported by SCA tools that do not
have an associated CVE identifier are referred to as Non-CVEs.
2.1 Maven:
Maven is a package manager for Java projects.
Dependency Scopes: Maven dependencies can have six dif-
ferent scopes [ 43 ]: compile, provided, runtime, test, system, and
import. The scopes determine the phase when a dependency will
be used and if the dependencies can propagate transitively.
Dependency Mediation: When there are multiple versions of
a package in the dependency tree, Maven picks one with the nearest
definition. Therefore, usually, a single project has a single version
of a package as a dependency that is read from a local repository.
In the dependency file (pom.xml), developers generally specify a
single version for its dependencies. Version numbers can have up
to five parts indicating major, minor, or incremental changes.
2.2 Node Package Manager (npm):
npm is a package manager for JavaScript projects.
Dependency Scopes: npm has two primary dependency scopes:
Prod (production) and dev (development) to indicate the phase
where a dependency is required.
Dependency Mediation: npm copies all the dependencies in a
project sub-directory called ‘node_modules’, with a similar struc-
ture of the dependency tree. If two dependencies A and B both
depend on the same package C, two different copies of package
C will be copied inside package A and B. Therefore, the same de-
pendency can have multiple paths to be introduced to the root
application. Also, the same package can have multiple versions as
dependencies. Therefore, npm has a concept called dependency
path, which is not present in Maven. Each unique path a depen-
dency is introduced to the root application is referred to as the
dependency path. In npm, developers can list a range of versions for
a package that is valid as a dependency. npm also has the concept
of lock files – a snapshot of the entire dependency tree and their
resolved version at a given time; and can be used to instruct npm to
install the specified versions in the lock file. npm packages follow
the SemVer format [1] for version numbering.
3 EVALUATION CASE STUDY: OPENMRS
OpenMRS is a web application for electronic medical record plat-
form [11 ]. A particular configuration of OpenMRS that can be
installed and upgraded as a unit is referred to as a distribution.
The general purpose distribution of OpenMRS is the “Reference
Application Distribution” [ 12 ]. We choose Version 2.10.0 of this
distribution released on April 6, 2020 (the latest release at the time
of this study ) as our evaluation subject. In the remainder of the
paper, we refer to the whole distribution simply as “OpenMRS”.
OpenMRS consists of 44 projects that are hosted in their own sep-
arate repositories on GitHub. Out of the 44 projects, 39 are Maven
projects and 1 is a npm project. The other 4 projects are composed
of a Maven and a npm project each. Based on OpenMRS structure,
we scope our study to Maven and npm dependencies. We use
OpenMRS SDK [ 13 ] to automate the build, test, and run of the
individual projects and assemble the full application in this study.
3.1 Why OpenMRS?
Choosing test cases to evaluate software security tools can be a
complex task. For comparison of security tools, Delaitre et al. [ 28]
A comparative study of vulnerability reporting by software composition analysis tools ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy
Table 1: OpenMRS dependency overview
Maven npm
No. of projects 43 5
Total unique dependencies
(package and version) 547 2,213
Total unique packages 311 1,498
Median dependency per project 127.0 840.5
Median dependency path per project NA 1,675.0
Median depth of dependencies 2 4
Max. depth of dependencies 7 12
Median Provided dependencies 99.0 NA
Median Compile dependencies 3.0 NA
Median Runtime dependencies 5.0 NA
Median Test dependencies 24.5 NA
Median Production dependencies NA 202.5
Median Production dependency path NA 366.0
Median Developer dependencies NA 807.5
Median Developer dependency path NA 1,613.5
notes that the test case should have sufficient and diverse number
of security weaknesses. OpenMRS depends on many third-party
dependencies as will be seen in Section 3.2; and being a web appli-
cation, is composed of several heterogeneous components, such as
database, content generation engines, client-side code etc., there-
fore increasing the probability of having a large, diverse set of
vulnerable dependencies.
Another approach of comparison instead of a single case study
can be running the tools on a group of diverse projects. However,
three of the selected tools in this study (Steady, Commercial A,
and B) are (a) resource and time-consuming to set up and run; (b)
involve certain requirements, e.g., acceptance tests for interactive
binary instrumentation, unit tests for executability tracing; and (c)
involve permission issues in case of the commercial tools. On the
contrary, focusing on a single case study enables us to manually
investigate the differences in the tools’ results.
OpenMRS has also been used in security research in the past [ 22 ,
24 , 25 , 34 , 45 , 48 ]. [34] evaluated OpenMRS for medical system
security requirements; [45 ] evaluated OpenMRS for access control
checking; while [22] studied OpenMRS for correct audit logging.
3.2 OpenMRS: Dependency Overview
In this section, we provide an overview of Maven and npm depen-
dencies of OpenMRS. We parse the dependency tree of each project
through native mvn dependency:tree and npm list command. We also
parse each dependency’s scope and depth in the dependency tree.
Table 1 provides a dependency overview of OpenMRS. Note
that, for Maven projects, there can be internal dependencies – that
is – a project within the OpenMRS distribution can be listed as
a dependency for another project. We do not count the internal
dependencies in Table 1. Also, npm projects can contain lock files
such as shrinkwrap.json, package-lock.json which are not considered.
4 SCA TOOLS
In this section, we explain the criteria we use to select the SCA tools;
description of the tools; how we performed the scan on OpenMRS;
and how we analyzed the reports produced by the tools.
4.1 Selection Criteria
To identify the existing SCA tools from both industrial offerings
and the latest research, we performed an academic literature search
and a web search through the following keywords: (vulnerable OR
open source OR software) AND (dependency OR package OR library
OR component OR composition) AND (detection OR scan OR tool
OR analysis). From the relevant search results, we filtered the tools
with the following inclusion criteria: a) scans either Maven or npm
projects; b) we have access to an executable tool; and c) offers
unique features when compared with already selected tools. From
our selection process, we selected nine tools. Two of the tools are
not freely available, and the license agreements prevent us from
providing names. We refer to them as Commercial A and B. Out
of the selected 9 tools, 4 tools can scan both Maven and npm
projects, 1 tool scans only npm projects, while 4 tools scan
only Maven projects.
We observed that SCA tools primarily differ in three dimensions:
(1) Vulnerability database: To report the list of known vul-
nerabilities, the tools need a database. Tools can pull vulnera-
bility data from third-party source(s) such as NVD CVEs [8].
Additionally, SCA tools can maintain their own vulnerability
database where they collect and verify vulnerability data
through different techniques [23, 50].
(2) Dependency scanning source: SCA tools can detect open
source dependencies from dependency manifest file, source
code, and binaries. Typically, dependency files are the com-
mon source to resolve dependencies of a project as is done
by the package managers as well.
(3) Additional analysis to infer dependency use: Tools can
perform additional static and/or dynamic analysis to infer
how the dependencies are being used by an application.
4.2 Tool description
For the selected tools, we describe (a) if they scan Maven or npm
dependencies, their (b) data source, (c) scanning technique, and (d)
how we performed the scan for this study.
OWASP Dependency-Check (DC): This tool scans both Maven
and npm projects and works by scanning the dependency files, JARs,
and JavaScript files [6]. It pulls vulnerability data from multiple
third-party sources including NVD, OSS Index, npm advisories. We
used the Maven plugin to scan Maven projects and the command
line tool (Version 5.3.2) to scan npm projects. We had the experi-
mental analyzer option enabled to perform JavaScript scanning.
Snyk: Snyk also scans both Maven and npm projects. The tool
works by scanning dependency files [ 14] and maintain its own
vulnerability database [15 ]. We ran the command line tool (Version
1.382.0) that is freely available through the command snyk test
–all-projects –dev –json.
GitHub Dependabot: Dependabot scans both Maven and npm
projects hosted on GitHub. GitHub maintains its own vulnerability
ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy Nasif Imtiaz, Seaver Thorn, and Laurie Williams
database [ 5 ] where it pulls data from NVD, npm advisories. Ad-
ditionally, maintainers on GitHub can publish vulnerabilities in
their projects as well. We hosted the 44 studied projects on the
first author’s GitHub account and retrieved the Dependabot alerts
through GitHub API.
Maven Security Versions (MSV): This tool only scans Maven
projects [18 ] through dependency files. We ran this tool through
its Maven plugin.
npm audit: This is a native tool of npm package manager for
scanning npm projects. The tool works by scanning dependency
files and maintains its own vulnerability database [10 ]. We used
the npm audit –json command.
Eclipse Steady: This tool only scans Java (Maven) projects. The
tool performs additional analysis to assess the execution of vulner-
able code in the dependencies of an application [4]. The approach
implemented is described in [ 41] and [40 ]. The tool requires a man-
ual set up, along with the vulnerability database provided by the
tool. We used Version 3.1.10 of this tool. We set up Steady in a virtual
machine, allocating 16 GB RAM, and 4 processor cores. Steady hosts
their vulnerability data set on GitHub [ 17 ]. The data set contains
patch commit information for each vulnerability. We imported the
data source updated on Jan 24, 2020. We then performed the patch
analysis feature provided by the tool to identify the involved code
constructs for each vulnerability. For reachability analysis of the
identified vulnerabilities, Steady performs three analyses: 1) static
call graph construction; 2) executing JUnit tests for analyzing exe-
cutability traces; and 3) JVM instrumentation through integration
testing. We were unable to complete the third analysis as the tool
presumably ran out of memory after running for ten days.
WhiteSource: WhiteSource has a GitHub bot named “White-
Source Bolt” [19 ] which scans both Maven and npm projects. White-
Source also maintains its own vulnerability database [ 20 ]. We con-
nected the GitHub bot with our hosted repositories on GitHub and
retrieved the issues created by WhiteSource through GitHub API.
Commercial A: This tool has scientific papers discussing their
approach (not citing to maintain blindness). We contacted their
research team and provided them with the repository links for the
studied projects. They returned to us with scan reports only for
Maven dependencies for 37 projects and reported that they failed to
complete the automated scans for the rest of the projects which may
have required manual intervention. This tool offers static analysis
by default and dynamic analysis as an option to identify vulnerable
call chains. We received results only with static analysis performed
on the code. The tool maintains its own vulnerability database.
Commercial B: We used the free cloud edition of the tool, where
it only scanned the Java dependencies (the customer support in-
formed us that the tool does not scan front-end libraries). The tool
checks for the reachability of vulnerabilities in dependency through
interactive application security testing – that is – monitoring de-
pendencies in use when an application is run and interacted with
either through automated testing or human testers. The tool uses
third-party vulnerability databases including NVD, which they cu-
rate themselves to enhance accuracy. To run this tool on OpenMRS,
we make use of 123 test cases provided by OpenMRS for integration
testing that interact with the application through a Selenium web-
driver. We connected OpenMRS to this tool and used the integration
test suite to interact with the application.
We collected the scan reports separately for 44 projects for 8
tools. For Commercial B, which analyzes the application during
runtime, we get a single report for the whole OpenMRS distribution.
As vulnerability data gets updated over time, we ran all the tools
during September 2020 to ensure a fair comparison, except for
Steady whose vulnerability data is from January 2020.
4.3 Analyzing Tool Results
Below, we discuss the metrics and information that we processed
from the tool reports to answer our research questions.
Quantity of Alerts: When a project is scanned by a tool, the
tool reports a raw count of alerts identified on the project. However,
the alerts do not represent either unique dependencies or unique
vulnerabilities. We observed that the same alerts can be repeated
in tools’ reports for various reasons. The alert count, however, may
indicate the amount of audit effort required from the developers.
Tracking unique dependency, dependency path, package,
and vulnerability: The definitions of these four metrics, as used
in this study, are provided in Section 2. When processing the anal-
ysis reports from all the tools, we store the data in a relational
database schema. In the schema, we keep an identifier for each
unique package, dependency (package:version), dependency path,
and CVE identifier. For the non-CVEs, all tools except OWASP DC
and Commercial A provide a tool-specific identifier. While OWASP
DC and Commercial A provide no reliable identifier to track unique
non-CVEs, upon manual inspection, we noticed that the vulnera-
bility description along with the affected package(s) are a reliable
way to track non-CVEs. However, we have no reliable way to map
non-CVEs across different tool reports.
Scan time indicates the total number of minutes a tool took
to scan all the projects. We have no scan time for GitHub and
WhiteSource as they are GitHub cloud services. We collected the
issues and alerts from GitHub at the end of September, at least
two weeks after hosting the repositories. Commercial B monitors
dependency during runtime through interaction, therefore, also
does not have a definite scan time.
Other information: Tools had additional information in their
reports, generally to aid developers in assessing the risk of the alerts
and to help in fixing them. We also collected these additional data,
which will be explained in Section 5 when discussing the findings.
Manual analysis of the tools’ report: To understand why
there are differences in the tools’ results, we manually inspected
the tools’ results. We specifically focused on the project coreapps as
this is the project with the largest dependency count and includes
both Maven and npm dependencies. The first author went through
results from all the tools for coreapps, and categorized the differ-
ences. The second author then independently went through the
results from the studied tools and verified the categorization done
by the first author.
5 FINDINGS
In this section, we present descriptive statistics on how SCA tools
differed on vulnerability detection, a manual analysis on why the
tools differed (RQ1); and a characterization of the metrics provided
by the studied tools for aiding in risk assessment of vulnerability
in dependencies, (RQ2).
A comparative study of vulnerability reporting by software composition analysis tools ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy
Table 2: Vulnerable Dependencies for Maven (Java) projects
Tool Alert Unique
Dependency
Unique
Package
Unique
Vulnerability CVE Non-CVE Scan Time
(Minutes)
Total (Median per project)
OWASP DC 12,466 (254.0) 332 (38.0) 149 (36.0) 313 (117.0) 289 24 14.4
Snyk 4,902 (66.0) 96 (6.0) 46 (6.0) 189 (23.0) 178 11 15.1
Dependabot 136 (0.0) 20 (0.0) 11 (0.0) 61 (0.0) 61 0 NA
MSV 3,197 (58.0) 36 (12.0) 14 (12.0) 36 (22.0) 36 0 3.4
Steady 2,489 (51.0) 91 (20.0) 39 (19.0) 97 (41.0) 89 8 385.0
WhiteSource 434 (0.0) 76 (0.0) 44 (0.0) 146 (0.0) 127 19 NA
Commercial A 2,998 (70.0) 107 (24.0) 53 (24.0) 208 (70.0) 187 21 NA
Commercial B 205 35 35 127 127 0 NA
Table 3: Vulnerable Dependencies for npm (JavaScript) projects
Tool Alert
Unique
Dependency
Path
Unique
Dependency
Unique
Package
Unique
Vulnerability CVE Non-
CVE
Scan Time
(Minutes)
Total (Median per project)
OWASP DC 1,379 (208.0) 498 (72.0) 239 (71.0) 160 (57.0) 234 (71.0) 78 156 4.4
Snyk 2,210 (135.0) 1,004 (44.0) 90 (20.0) 54 (17.0) 121 (26.0) 79 42 1.0
Dependabot 97 (8.0) NA 32 (1.0) 30 (1.0) 45 (4.0) 29 16 NA
npm audit 1,266 (37.0) 852 (28.0) 58 (12.0) 45 (12.0) 62 (16.0) 31 31 0.1
WhiteSource 205 (32.0) 205 (32.0) 89 (14.0) 55 (9.0) 96 (18.0) 58 38 NA
(a) Overlap ratios for Maven vulnerable dependencies (b) Overlap ratios for npm vulnerable dependencies
Figure 1: Overlap analysis of unique vulnerable dependencies for each tool pair: Cell(i, j) indicates the percentage of i’th tool’s
reported vulnerable dependencies that are also reported by the j’th tool.
5.1 RQ1: What are the differences between
vulnerability reports produced by the
different software composition analysis
(SCA) tools?
Table 2 and 3 show the tools’ result summary for Maven and npm
dependencies, respectively. The table provides the total count for
alerts and unique dependencies, dependency paths (for JavaScript),
packages, and vulnerabilities for OpenMRS as a single application.
The tables also report the total count of CVEs, non-CVEs, and scan
time. For the eight tools that scanned projects individually (besides
Commercial B), the tables provide in parentheses the median count
per project for alerts and for unique dependencies, dependency
paths, packages, and vulnerabilities.
The alert counts are higher than the count of unique vulner-
abilities or dependency paths, as discussed in Section 4.3. While
the total alert count repeats the same vulnerabilities found across
projects, some tools repeat the same alert within a project as well
ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy Nasif Imtiaz, Seaver Thorn, and Laurie Williams
(a) (b) (c) (d)
Figure 2: Venn Diagram for overlap of vulnerable dependencies and CVEs among three representative tools: OWASP DC, Snyk,
and WhiteSource. The sub-figures represent overlap of (a) Maven vulnerable dependencies, (b) npm vulnerable dependencies,
(c) maven CVEs, (d) npm CVEs.
Table 4: Scope breakdown, rate of direct dependencies among reported vulnerable dependencies (VDs), and max. depth for the
reported transitive VDs
Tool Scope breakdown for
Maven VDs
Scope breakdown for
npm VDs
Direct VDs
(across all projects)
Max. Depth of
VDs
Compile Provided Runtime Test Prod Dev Maven npm Maven npm
OWASP DC 58 66 4 54 65 207 5.8% 4.4% 6 10
Snyk 56 62 2 25 13 83 14.8% 3.5% 7 10
Dependabot 15 5 1 2 6 8 97.0% 65.9% 2 6
MSV 19 30 1 3 NA NA 1.7% NA 5 NA
npm audit NA NA NA NA 15 51 NA 0.9% NA 10
Steady 60 60 4 11 NA NA 5.3% NA 5 NA
WhiteSource 54 0 2 0 12 76 60.0% 8.8% 5 10
Commercial A 72 79 1 0 NA NA 8.7% NA 5 NA
due to modular project structure. We also see the unique depen-
dency count is higher than the unique package count. Different
versions of the same package may be declared as a dependency
in different projects, while npm can have multiple versions of the
same package as dependencies even within a single project. We
now discuss how the SCA tools have differed in their reporting:
The tools differed both on identifying unique vulnerable
dependencies and the unique vulnerabilities: OWASP DC de-
tects the highest number of unique dependencies and unique vulner-
abilities for both Maven and npm projects. However, our analysis
in Section 5.2 indicates more may not necessarily be better. Con-
versely, Commercial B that monitors the dependency under use
during runtime detected the lowest number of vulnerable depen-
dencies for Maven projects. MSV and Dependabot detected the
lowest number of unique vulnerabilities, respectively, for Maven
and npm projects.
5 out of the 8 tools for Maven reported non-CVEs while
all the 5 tools for npm reported non-CVEs. We observe that
npm packages have a higher proportion of non-CVEs to CVEs than
Maven packages. We find OWASP DC to report higher non-CVEs
than any of the other 4 tools for npm projects. However, as OWASP
DC does not provide an identifier for non-CVEs, we tracked unique
non-CVEs through vulnerability description and affected packages,
which may have resulted in duplication of the same vulnerabilities.
Only 2 out of the 5 tools that scanned npm projects report
vulnerable dependency paths: In npm, the same package A can
be introduced transitively through multiple direct dependencies
and therefore, can lie in multiple dependency paths. The developers
may need to fix each path separately if there is a vulnerability in
package A. We find that only npm audit and Snyk report all possible
dependency paths to each unique vulnerability.
Tools have non-overlap in reported vulnerabilities and de-
pendencies: We measured how much of the unique vulnerable
dependencies reported by the tools overlap with each other. The
heat maps in Figure 1 show overlap ratio across tool pairs for both
Maven and npm projects. For a tool pair (A,B), the heat map shows
how many dependencies reported by A were also reported by B
and vice versa. For example, for maven projects, 54% of Snyk’s re-
ported vulnerable dependencies were also reported by WhiteSource.
Conversely, 68% of WhiteSource’s reported maven dependencies
were also reported by Snyk. Figure 2a, 2b demonstrates non-overlap
in dependencies through a Venn diagram for three representative
tools. We can not show such a heat map for all unique vulnerabili-
ties, as we were unable to cross-reference non-CVEs across tools.
However, we also found non-overlap over reported CVEs as well
across tools. Figure 2c, 2d demonstrates non-overlap in CVEs for
OWASP DC, Snyk, and WhiteSource.
Tools detected vulnerable dependencies across all scopes
and depths: Table 4 shows a breakdown of scan results per depen-
dency scope and what portion of the reported vulnerable depen-
dencies are introduced directly by OpenMRS. We find that reported
vulnerabilities are mostly introduced through transitive dependen-
cies, except for Dependabot and WhiteSource. The latter two tools
A comparative study of vulnerability reporting by software composition analysis tools ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy
assist GitHub projects in automatically fixing the vulnerable depen-
dencies (by upgrading to a safer version), which may explain the
high rate of direct dependencies in their reporting.
We find SCA tools to vary widely in the reporting of known
vulnerabilities, for both Maven and npm dependencies.
5.2 Why do the tools differ on vulnerability
reporting?
We list the reasons we characterized (with no particular order)
through manual analysis behind the differences in the tools’ results:
(1) OWASP DC and WhiteSource detected JavaScript
dependencies in Maven projects: The Maven projects in
OpenMRS can also contain front-end JavaScript files. OWASP
DC was able to identify dependencies from JavaScript files
such as jquery, handlebars. These dependencies are not re-
solved by Maven itself or declared in any dependency man-
ifest file. Besides OWASP DC, only WhiteSource detected
JavaScript dependencies in Maven projects. In total, 42 Java-
Script dependencies were found by OWASP DC, while White-
Source found 20.
(2) Only OWASP DC reported vulnerabilities in internal
dependencies: As mentioned in Section 3.2, OpenMRS can
have internal dependencies which were reported only by
OWASP DC. OWASP DC reported 200 dependencies which
are OpenMRS projects. However, these 200 dependencies
contain only 14 CVEs and 6 non-CVEs. OpenMRS projects
are divided into many sub-modules and OWASP DC re-
ports the same vulnerability separately for each sub-module,
which results in an inflation of reported dependencies.
(3) Same vulnerabilities can be repeated over multiple
packages: We observe tools may report the same vulner-
ability across many related packages, such as dependent
packages of a vulnerable package. For example, CVE-2014-
3625 was only reported for spring-webmvc by MSV, Snyk,
Steady, and Commercial A. However, OWASP DC reported
this CVE for five separate spring packages as NVD simply
lists the whole spring-frameowrk as affected by this CVE.
Conversely, OWASP DC detected functions of npm packages
as individual dependencies. In the lodash package, OWASP
DC detected 31 functions, such as lodash._baseassign and
lodash._reevaluate, separately besides the package itself, and
repeated the same 7 vulnerabilities for each of them while
other tools simply reported the lodash package as vulnerable.
Prior work reported that relying on the Common Platform
Enumeration (CPE) identifier that comes with CVE data
may be a reason behind inaccurate vulnerability to package
mapping [32 ]. For example, OWASP DC reported the same
17 CVEs for activeio-core, activemq-core, and kahadb as they
all map to the same CPE identifier while other tools only
reported activemq-core.
(4) Tools may have different mapping of vulnerability to
affected versions of packages: Incorrect mapping of a
vulnerability to the affected version range of a package
may result in inaccurate alerts. For example, in commons-
beanutils:1.7.0, OWASP DC, WhiteSource, and Commercial
A reported CVE-2014-0114 and CVE-2019-10086 while MSV
reported only CVE-2014-0114 ; Dependabot reported only
CVE-2019-10086; and Snyk reported no CVEs at all. To in-
vestigate this difference, we looked into Snyk’s vulnerability
database [ 15 ] and found that Snyk lists the affected version
range as [1.8.0, 1.9.2) and [1.9.2, 1.9.4) respectively for the
two CVEs and therefore, considers the version OpenMRS
uses as free of these vulnerabilities. Similarly, Dependabot
lists [1.8.0, 1.9.2) version range as affected for CVE-2014-
0114 but all versions below 1.9.4 as affected for CVE-2019-
10086. In NVD, the affected versions for the two CVEs are
listed simply as up to 1.9.1 and up to 1.9.3.
Similarly, in the npm ecosystem, CVE-2018-1000620 was
detected by all tools except Snyk for cryptiles:0.2.2. We found
that Snyk’s database lists [3.1.0, 3.1.3)||[4.0.0, 4.1.2) range as
affected by this CVE. The NVD CVE data simply lists version
up to 4.1.1 as affected by the CVE.
(5) Dependabot reported transitive dependencies through
lock files: We notice that Dependabot typically only detect
direct dependencies. In the two cases where Dependabot
reported transitive dependencies were due to: a) the Maven
dependency file explicitly declared the required version for
the transitive dependency, and b) the lock file was present
in the repository that declared the resolved versions of the
full dependency tree. Further, no other tools reported depen-
dencies from lock files except Dependabot, which detected
15 vulnerable dependencies from lock files.
(6) Commercial B only reported vulnerabilities in depen-
dencies under use during runtime: As Commercial B
tracks dependencies through interaction testing as explained
in Section 4.2, the tool only reported dependencies that were
under use by OpenMRS during integration testing, which
explains the low count of dependencies reported.
(7) The state of CVEs may result in differences in tools’
results: After a CVE is published, the CVE may become
reserved, disputed, or rejected based on new information [3 ].
We observed that the state of CVEs may be one possible rea-
son behind differences in CVE reporting, as SCA tools need
to be timely updated and verify the changes in CVE states.
For example, CVE-2019-10768 and CVE-2020-7676 in npm
projects were detected by Snyk, Dependabot, and White-
Source but not by OWASP DC and npm audit. However, the
latter two tools reported one of them as non-CVEs with a
more elaborate explanation. The other CVE is awaiting re-
analysis (subject to further changes) which may be a possible
reason they are not incorporated by the latter tools. Further,
we found four rejected CVEs to be reported by WhiteSource
and Snyk which were not reported by other tools.
(8) Tools can report unique non-CVEs not reported by other
tools: A comparison between non-CVEs across different
tools requires manual analysis, as there is no common iden-
tifiers. We manually looked at a random sample of depen-
dencies that were reported to have non-CVEs by multiple
tools, and found that each tool reported non-CVEs that were
not reported by any other tools in the study set.
ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy Nasif Imtiaz, Seaver Thorn, and Laurie Williams
Steady: Static Analysis (Vulnerable code potentially executable)
Total Alerts Package not in use Non-vulnerable code of package used Vulnerable code of package used
2,489 2,095 (84.2%) 340 (13.7%) 54 (2.1%)
Steady: Dynamic Analysis (Vulnerable code actually executed)
Total Alerts Package not in use Non-vulnerable code of package used Vulnerable code of package used
2,489 2,437 (97.9%) 11 (0.4%) 41 (1.6%)
Commercial A: Vulnerable call chains
Total Alerts Vulnerable Method Calls Total Vulnerable Call Chain Median Call Chain per Method
2,998 31 93 2.0
Table 5: Code analysis based prioritization metrics: Vulnerable code reachability analysis
For example, we observe the following cases in angular:1.6.1:
OWASP DC reports two improper input validation vulnerabil-
ity not reported by any other tool. While Snyk, WhiteSource,
and Dependabot reported a similar XSS vulnerability, Snyk
and WhiteSource also reported unique XSS not reported by
others. Snyk also reported a unique denial of service not re-
ported by the other tools. npm audit did not report any of
these non-CVEs. We noticed similar differences in non-CVEs
for other packages as well, e.g. lodash, ws.
We categorize 8 reasons behind differences in vulnerability
reporting among the studied SCA tools, such as inconsis-
tency in vulnerability to affected package version mapping.
5.3 RQ2: What metrics are presented by the
SCA tools to aid in the risk assessment of
dependency vulnerabilities?
When a vulnerability lies in a dependency, the risk of the vulnera-
bility may need to be determined by how the application uses the
dependency – that is – in the context of the dependency. We have
observed that the studied SCA tools reported several metrics in
scan reports to aid in such contextual assessment. We characterize
these metrics into five categories:
5.3.1 Code analysis-based metrics. Tools may analyze source
code or binaries to infer dependency usage and vulnerability reach-
ability. Three of the tools, Steady, Commercial A, and B, use code
analysis-based metrics for Java language:
Reachability Analysis: Tool can curate their vulnerability data-
base with details on which part of the code (e.g. method, class) is
involved in a specific vulnerability. Tools then can infer if the vul-
nerable code is reachable from the dependant application through
static and/or dynamic analysis. Steady and Commercial A provides
reachability analysis for each vulnerability in dependency.
Steady constructs static call graphs of an application to infer
reachability, referred to as potentially executable (static analysis).
Steady also looks at the executability traces through unit testing
to determine if the vulnerable code is actually executed (dynamic
analysis). Commercial A, similarly perform static analysis to iden-
tify vulnerable call chains – that is – the call chain from the appli-
cation code that reaches the vulnerable method of the dependency.
Table 5 shows the reachability analysis from Steady and Com-
mercial A. We find that for 84.2% of the alerts, Steady did not find
the corresponding dependency to be used by the dependant applica-
tion. Further, Steady found only 2.1% of the alerts were potentially
executable and 1.6% of the alerts were actually executed. However,
we found a disconnect between the findings of static and dynamic
analysis. Only for 13 alerts, both static and dynamic analysis found
the vulnerable code to be in use. Also, for 11 alerts where dynamic
analysis found the vulnerable code to be actually executed, static
analysis did not find any part of the dependency containing the
vulnerability to be in use at all. This observation may indicate limi-
tations to reachability analysis. Similar to Steady, Commercial A
also found a low number of cases where the vulnerable code of
dependency can actually be reached from application source code
specifying 93 distinct call chains.
Static analysis, such as call graph construction for Java, is known
to have limitations [ 46 ]. The effectiveness of dynamic analysis, such
as Steady’s is also dependant on having a good test-suite and test
coverage. We see that OpenMRS projects reach only around 20%
test coverage in Steady. The limited test coverage may have affected
Steady’s findings.
Dependency Usage: The client application may only use a sub-
set of the functionalities offered by a dependency. The code pro-
portion of a dependency used by an application may indicate the
probability of a vulnerability being reachable. Steady and Commer-
cial B reports how many classes out of the total available are used
in a dependency. For example, Commercial B found 203 out of 414
classes (49%) for spring-web and 790 out of 4,414 (17.9%) classes for
groovy-all to have been used by OpenMRS.
5.3.2 Package Based metrics: The characteristics of the depen-
dency package itself may indicate the risk associated with it.
Package security rating: Commercial B provides a letter grade
on their assessment of the security of a package. The tool calculates
the security rating of a package based on its age, count of released
versions, and number of known vulnerabilities. Out of the 17 pack-
ages being identified as vulnerable by Commercial B, 16 have an F
rating while one has a D rating.
5.3.3 Dependency characteristics based metrics: The scope
and depth of the dependency may indicate the risk of the vulnera-
bility it contains in the context of the application.
Dependency scope: For Maven projects, only Steady reported
the scope for each dependency. For npm projects, Snyk and npm
audit mentions the dependency scope.
A comparative study of vulnerability reporting by software composition analysis tools ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy
Dependency depth: Risk may be associated with how deep a
dependency lies within the dependency tree. Only Snyk and Steady
indicate if a dependency is direct or transitive for Maven projects.
For npm, Only Snyk and npm audit reports all possible dependency
paths for each vulnerability indicating the possible depths.
5.3.4 Vulnerability based metric: The characteristics of the
vulnerability itself can be used in assessing risk. We found three
types of information provided by the tools:
Severity: The industry standard for rating the severity of vul-
nerability is the Common Vulnerability Scoring System [ 2] (CVSS),
which are publicly available for CVEs. For the non-CVEs, Snyk and
Commercial A also present a CVSS score. However, Dependabot
and npm audit present a severity rating on a scale of their own for
both CVEs and non-CVEs. For both the tools, the scale consists of
four levels similar to CVSS3 levels: low, moderate, high, and critical
Available exploits: The availability of known exploits may
contribute in assessing the risk for a vulnerability in a dependency.
For each vulnerability, Snyk provides information on whether an
exploit is publicly available. For the 310 Snyk vulnerabilities, Snyk
reports that 218 do not have a public exploit; 10 have a functional
exploit; 37 have a proof of concept exploit; while 45 have unproven
exploits available. Commercial A also reports on available exploits.
Popularity: How popular or well-known is a vulnerability may
indicate the probability it may get exploited in the wild. Steady
integrates Google trend analysis for each vulnerability in its reports
which indicates the count of search hits within the past 30 days for
the CVE identifier.
5.3.5 Confidence in alert validity: SCA tools may provide a
confidence rating for each alert, which may aid developers in prior-
itizing auditing.
Evidence count: As OWASP DC detects dependencies from
scanning multiple sources, it can provide an evidence count as a
proof for each dependency. The tool provides a confidence label,
from Low to Highest, based on this evidence count. For all alerts
except 4 Maven alerts, OWASP DC provided with either High or
Highest confidence rating.
Our tool survey highlights the research need for a common
risk measurement framework specifically for dependency
vulnerabilities that can be adopted by the SCA tools.
6 DISCUSSION
Below we discuss observations and implications from our work:
Resolving dependencies only through dependency mani-
fest files may not provide all the open source code in use. We
find that OWASP DC and WhiteSource detect JavaScript depen-
dencies in Maven projects through source code scanning which
are not declared in the Maven dependency file. This observation
sheds light on the importance of scanning source code, binaries,
and deployment environments to resolve all the open source code
used by an application . Further, projects can use code fragments
from open source packages [ 29] that should also be identified in
order to report known vulnerabilities. Future research is necessary
to understand how reliably we can identify all the open source
components used in a deployed application.
Accurate mapping of vulnerability to affected versions of
packages should be ensured by the tools to avoid false posi-
tives: We showed examples in Section 5.2 on how inconsistency in
vulnerability to package mapping can result in differences between
tools’ results. We also find inconsistencies in what version range is
listed as affected for a specific CVE by different tools. Our findings
highlight the importance of maintaining the accuracy of the tools’
vulnerability databases.
Non-CVEs should get reported to CVE database to estab-
lish their validity and cross-tool vulnerability mapping. We
find that SCA tools report known vulnerabilities in dependencies
that do not have a CVE identifier. To understand why the non-
CVEs might not have been incorporated into the CVE database,
we look at their publication date. Of the 53 non-CVEs reported by
Snyk, 41 were published before 2020; while of the 54 non-CVEs
reported by WhiteSource, 50 were published before 2020. There-
fore, developers may question why a reported vulnerability does
not have a CVE identifier as CVE validation usually takes around
three months. Furthermore, we see that different tools can report
the same non-CVEs. However, cross-tool referencing cannot be
done automatically without a common identifier like CVE. We sug-
gest reporting the non-CVEs to CVE database to establish validity,
make cross-tool referencing easy, and make the vulnerability widely
known.
Developers may employ more than one tool to leverage
different vulnerability databases: The reporting of unique non-
CVEs by the tools highlights the existence of known vulnerabilities
in the wild, not necessarily tracked by a centralized database. SCA
tools may have delay in incorporating such non-CVEs, if not com-
pletely missing them. Prior work has shown that unawareness of
the vulnerability is a major reason developers do not update vulner-
able dependencies [ 33 ]. Therefore, our findings suggest developers
may use multiple SCA tools to be timely informed of all the known
vulnerabilities.
Tools should suggest fix options while explaining the risk
of any potential backward incompatibility. Out of the studied
tools, Snyk, Dependabot, npm audit, and WhiteSource offers auto-
mated fix suggestions. However, prior work has found that fear of
breaking change is one of the primary reasons developers do not
want to update vulnerable dependencies [21 ]. Tools may provide a
more in-depth analysis on what code change is there with a certain
version change in a dependency and if there is any possibilities of
introduction of regression bugs.
Developers may need to evaluate security risk of depen-
dency vulnerabilities case-by-case basis: Prior research has
shown that not all vulnerabilities in dependency may be relevant
for the client application [ 38 , 39 ]. We find two tools to offer reacha-
bility analysis for each dependency vulnerability. However, future
research is required to evaluate if developers in the real world ac-
tually use such metrics and find them useful or not. The lack of a
common framework for risk assessment among SCA tools suggest
that developers will have to evaluate the vulnerability alerts case-
by-case basis based on their expertise on the project codebase and
how the dependencies are being used by the specific project.
ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy Nasif Imtiaz, Seaver Thorn, and Laurie Williams
7 LIMITATIONS
We evaluate 9 SCA tools on one web application at a certain release
point, which poses a threat to the generalizability of our findings.
However, OpenMRS consists of 44 projects with 547 Maven and
2,213 npm dependencies, making our case study suitable for a com-
parative evaluation. Further, the single case study enables us to look
in-depth with manual analysis on why the tools’ results differed.
However, our findings may not generalize to other package ecosys-
tems, such as Ruby or Rust. Similarly, any other application with
a difference in dependency management may have yield different
findings. For example, the application that actively maintains its
dependencies updated will have a few vulnerable dependencies
overall and therefore, would not show large differences among
tools’ results. However, that would not invalidate the differences
we observed for the studied SCA tools on OpenMRS. Another threat
to the external validity involves the selection of the SCA tools. We
explain our decision criteria in Section 4.1. While we are unable to
cover all existing SCA tools, we do not claim the findings we have
in Section 5.2 and 5.3 to be exhaustive.
Another limitation of our study involves the absence of ground
truth. In the context of SCA alerts, there can be three steps for
building such a ground truth - a) determining all the open source
dependencies in use; b) determining the correctness of the reported
vulnerability data; c) determining exploitability of the dependency
vulnerabilities. These steps are nontrivial to perform manually for
a real software and may be more suitable with a synthetic test
subject [28 ]. Regarding exploitability, no tools except Commercial
B claims to filter out dependencies on any use criteria, while Steady
and Commercial A only offers additional analysis to aid in such
contextual assessment. Therefore, exploitability would not be a fair
comparison criteria for the studied SCA tools, and out-of-scope for
this study. Similarly, how developers respond to alerts from SCA
tools is also not in the scope of this study. Further, for RQ1, we do
not conduct any statistical test to measure significance in difference,
as we only perform a single case study.
8 RELATED WORK
The dependency network of package ecosystems and the presence
of known vulnerabilities in dependencies have been studied in the
literature [ 27 , 31 ]. Decan et al. [ 26 ] studied the impact of secu-
rity vulnerabilities in npm dependency network and found that the
number of packages with a known security vulnerability is growing
over time, and half of the dependent packages do not get fixed even
when the fix is available. [ 30 ] and [35 ] also found around one-third
of the packages in the npm network to have at least one vulner-
able dependency, while [30 ] found that context use of the module
and breaking changes are potential reasons for not resolving these
dependencies. The potential impact of the vulnerabilities in depen-
dency has also been studied. Zapata et al. [ 49 ] studied the impact of
a vulnerability in ws package in npm network on applications that
were using the vulnerable version of the package. The study finds
73.3% of the dependent applications did not actually use the vul-
nerable code. The study also finds that the dependent applications
that do not use the vulnerable code take longer to migrate to new
versions of a dependency. To detect dependencies where the vul-
nerable code is actually used by the including application, Ponta et
al. [40 –42 ] proposed a code-centric and usage-based approach based
on which the tool Steady is developed. Paschenko et al. [ 38] discuss
the over inflation problem when reporting dependencies with un-
exploitable vulnerabilities. In another work, Paschenko et al. [ 39 ]
interviewed developers on dependency management. The study
found that developers think SCA tools generate many irrelevant
and low-priority alerts, and may even rely on social channels than
SCA tools for vulnerability reporting. Developers recommended
SCA tools to report only relevant alerts, work offline, and be easily
integrated into company workflow. The literature focuses on the im-
portance of contextual assessment of vulnerable dependencies. To
the best of our knowledge, there has been no study yet evaluating
and comparing the existing SCA tools. The closest to our work is a
recent study by Ponta et al. [42 ] where the authors compared their
research tool Steady with OWASP Dependency-Check. The study
compares the two tools over a sample of alerts generated on Java
applications. The comparison was performed from the perspective
of the reachability of a vulnerability in the dependency. The study
finds both tools to have their unique findings. The study also finds
Steady to have no false positives but a few false negatives while
OWASP DC has non-negligible false positives. However, the study
focuses on evaluating the detection capabilities of Steady based
on its reachability analysis, whereas our study aims to provide a
comprehensive comparison of existing SCA tools for both Java and
JavaScript dependencies.
9 CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
We evaluate 9 SCA tools on a large web application composed of
Maven (Java) and npm (JavaScript) projects. We find that the tools
vary across a wide range in the count of reported unique vulner-
abilities and the dependencies that contain these vulnerabilities.
Evidences in our findings suggest that accuracy, up-to-dateness,
and completeness of vulnerability database is the key strength of
an SCA tool. While building automation technologies for contin-
uous monitoring of vulnerability data from open source package
ecosystems is a future research need, developers at the moment
may leverage multiple SCA tools in order to not miss any known
vulnerability. Further, SCA tools should be able to pick up open
source components beyond what is declared in the dependency
manifest files, if any. We find that tools can provide code-analysis
based metrics to assess the risk of dependency vulnerabilities. How-
ever, the effectiveness of such analysis needs to be evaluated and
how developers in the real world responds to vulnerable depen-
dencies should be studied. We have also seen tools to provide non
code-analysis based metrics, such as package security rating, vul-
nerability exploits, and popularity. Prior work has found developers
to rely on social channels to assess the risk of newly found vul-
nerabilities in open source packages [ 39 ]. As developers may get
overwhelmed with frequent SCA alerts and patching may require
extensive regression testing [ 44 ], future study is required on what
metrics and information we can provide developers with to aid them
in assessing and prioritizing the fix of vulnerable dependencies.
10 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
We thank the RealSearch group and anonymous reviewers for their
feedback. Our research was funded by NSA.
A comparative study of vulnerability reporting by software composition analysis tools ESEM ’21, October 11–15, 2021, Bari, Italy
REFERENCES
[1] About semantic versioning. https://docs.npmjs.com/about-semantic-versioning.
[2] Common vulnerability scoring system. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Common_
Vulnerability_Scoring_System.
[3] Cve states. https://cve.mitre.org/cve/identifiers/.
[4] Eclipse steady 3.1.14 (incubator project). https://eclipse.github.io/steady/about/.
[5] Github advisory database. https://github.com/advisories.
[6] How does dependency-check work? https://jeremylong.github.io/
DependencyCheck/general/internals.html.
[7] Mitre cve datagbase. https://cve.mitre.org/.
[8] National vulnerability database. https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln.
[9] Npm security advisories. https://www.npmjs.com/advisories.
[10] npm security advisories. https://www.npmjs.com/advisories.
[11] Openmrs around the world. http://guide.openmrs.org/en/.
[12] Openmrs reference application distribution. https://wiki.openmrs.org/display/
docs/OpenMRS+Reference+Application+Distribution.
[13] Openmrs sdk. https://wiki.openmrs.org/display/docs/OpenMRS+SDK.
[14] Snyk open source security management. https://support.snyk.io/hc/en-
us/articles/360000925438-What-does-Snyk-access-and-store-when-scanning-
a-project-.
[15] Snyk vulnerability db. https://snyk.io/vuln.
[16] Sonatype oss index. https://ossindex.sonatype.org/.
[17] Steady vulnerability dataset. https://github.com/SAP/project-kb.
[18] Victims software vulnerability scanner. https://blog.victi.ms/.
[19] Whitesource bolt for github. https://github.com/apps/whitesource-bolt-for-
github.
[20] Whitesource vulnerability database. https://www.whitesourcesoftware.com/
vulnerability-database/.
[21] 0patch.com. Security patching is hard. https://0patch.com/files/
SecurityPatchingIsHard_2017.pdf.
[22] Sepehr Amir-Mohammadian, Stephen Chong, and Christian Skalka. Correct
audit logging: Theory and practice. In International Conference on Principles of
Security and Trust, pages 139–162. Springer, 2016.
[23] Benji Catabi-Kalman. Why do organizations trust snyk to win the open source se-
curity battle? https://snyk.io/blog/why-snyk-wins-open-source-security-battle/.
[24] Steven P Crain. Open source security assessment as a class project. Journal of
Computing Sciences in Colleges, 32(6):41–53, 2017.
[25] Beatriz Sainz de Abajo and Agustín Llamas Ballestero. Overview of the most
important open source software: analysis of the benefits of openmrs, openemr,
and vista. In Telemedicine and e-health services, policies, and applications: Ad-
vancements and developments, pages 315–346. IGI Global, 2012.
[26] Alexandre Decan, Tom Mens, and Eleni Constantinou. On the impact of security
vulnerabilities in the npm package dependency network. In Proceedings of the
15th International Conference on Mining Software Repositories, pages 181–191,
2018.
[27] Alexandre Decan, Tom Mens, and Philippe Grosjean. An empirical compari-
son of dependency network evolution in seven software packaging ecosystems.
Empirical Software Engineering, 24(1):381–416, 2019.
[28] Aurelien M. Delaitre, Bertrand C. Stivalet, Paul E. Black, Vadim Okun, Terry S.
Cohen, and Athos Ribeiro. SATE V Report: Ten years of static analysis tool
expositions. Technical report, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
2018.
[29] Ibrahim Haddad. An open guide to evaluating software composition analysis
tools, 2020.
[30] JI Hejderup. In dependencies we trust: How vulnerable are dependencies in
software modules? 2015.
[31] Riivo Kikas, Georgios Gousios, Marlon Dumas, and Dietmar Pfahl. Structure and
evolution of package dependency networks. In 2017 IEEE/ACM 14th International
Conference on Mining Software Repositories (MSR), pages 102–112. IEEE, 2017.
[32] Sean Kinzer. Using cpes for open-source vulnerabilities? think again.
https://www.veracode.com/blog/managing-appsec/using-cpes-open-source-
vulnerabilities-think-again.
[33] Raula Gaikovina Kula, Daniel M German, Ali Ouni, Takashi Ishio, and Katsuro
Inoue. Do developers update their library dependencies? Empirical Software
Engineering, 23(1):384–417, 2018.
[34] Josephine Lamp, Carlos E Rubio-Medrano, Ziming Zhao, and Gail-Joon Ahn. The
danger of missing instructions: a systematic analysis of security requirements
for mcps. In 2018 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Connected Health: Ap-
plications, Systems and Engineering Technologies (CHASE), pages 94–99. IEEE,
2018.
[35] Tobias Lauinger, Abdelberi Chaabane, Sajjad Arshad, William Robertson, Christo
Wilson, and Engin Kirda. Thou shalt not depend on me: Analysing the use of
outdated javascript libraries on the web. arXiv preprint arXiv:1811.00918, 2018.
[36] National Institute of Standards and Technoloy (NIST). Guide for conducting risk
assessments, nist special publication 800-30. https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/
detail/sp/800-30/rev-1/final, September 2012. [Online; accessed 7-Oct-2020].
[37] Top OWASP. Top 10-2017 the ten most critical web application security risks.
OWASP_Top_10-2017_% 28en, 29, 2020.
[38] Ivan Pashchenko, Henrik Plate, Serena Elisa Ponta, Antonino Sabetta, and Fabio
Massacci. Vuln4real: A methodology for counting actually vulnerable dependen-
cies. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, 2020.
[39] Ivan Pashchenko, Duc-Ly Vu, and Fabio Massacci. A qualitative study of depen-
dency management and its security implications. Proc. of CCS, 20.
[40] Henrik Plate, Serena Elisa Ponta, and Antonino Sabetta. Impact assessment
for vulnerabilities in open-source software libraries. In 2015 IEEE International
Conference on Software Maintenance and Evolution (ICSME), pages 411–420. IEEE,
2015.
[41] Serena Elisa Ponta, Henrik Plate, and Antonino Sabetta. Beyond metadata:
Code-centric and usage-based analysis of known vulnerabilities in open-source
software. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and
Evolution (ICSME), pages 449–460. IEEE, 2018.
[42] Serena Elisa Ponta, Henrik Plate, and Antonino Sabetta. Detection, assessment
and mitigation of vulnerabilities in open source dependencies. Empirical Software
Engineering, pages 1–41, 2020.
[43] Apache Maven Project. "introduction to the dependency mechanism".
http://maven.apache.org/guides/introduction/introduction-to-dependency-
mechanism.html.
[44] Teri Radichel. Why patching software is hard: Technical challenges.
https://www.darkreading.com/vulnerabilities-and-threats/why-patching-
software-is-hard-technical-\challenges-/a/d-id/1330181.
[45] Syed Zain Rizvi, Philip WL Fong, Jason Crampton, and James Sellwood.
Relationship-based access control for openmrs. arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.06154,
2015.
[46] Li Sui, Jens Dietrich, Amjed Tahir, and George Fourtounis. On the recall of static
call graph construction in practice. ICSE, 2020.
[47] Synopsys. 2021 open source security and risk analysis report. https:
//www.synopsys.com/software-integrity/resources/analyst-reports/open-
source-security-risk-analysis.html, 2021.
[48] Inger Anne Tøndel, Martin Gilje Jaatun, Daniela Soares Cruzes, and Laurie
Williams. Collaborative security risk estimation in agile software development.
Information & Computer Security, 2019.
[49] Rodrigo Elizalde Zapata, Raula Gaikovina Kula, Bodin Chinthanet, Takashi Ishio,
Kenichi Matsumoto, and Akinori Ihara. Towards smoother library migrations: A
look at vulnerable dependency migrations at function level for npm javascript
packages. In 2018 IEEE International Conference on Software Maintenance and
Evolution (ICSME), pages 559–563. IEEE, 2018.
[50] Yaqin Zhou and Asankhaya Sharma. Automated identification of security issues
from commit messages and bug reports. In Proceedings of the 2017 11th Joint
Meeting on Foundations of Software Engineering, pages 914–919, 2017.